http://unprofesh.com/transcripts/2013/5/30/damian-kulash-covering-all-the-bases-42-transcript

This is a transcript of episode #42 of Unprofessional.

LEX 00:00	It's time, once again, for Unprofessional. I am Lex Friedman, joined by the man who turned me on to My Little Pony; Dave Wiskus. Hi, Dave.

DAVE 00:07	What's up, [Brawny?]

DAMIAN 00:04	Is that true [chuckles]

LEX 00:12	No, I'm full of lies and that

may--

DAVE 00:14	He makes stuff up.

LEX 00:14	That voice you just heard, that was Damian Kulash. Hi Damian, how are you?

DAMIAN 00:19	I'm wonderful. I was lost in the land of ponies for a moment there, that was really exciting thank you.

LEX 00:25	Are you a fan? Are you a My Little Pony fan?

DAMIAN 00:28	It would be dishonest for me to say yes but I would like-- I have no problem with little ponies. I don't have one--

LEX 00:38	Especially if they are mine--

DAVE 00:40	Friendship is magic--

DAMIAN 00:41	I did-- we did actually do a photo shoot for our last album - we did a photo shoot that involved a small horse, a miniature horse. It's not a pony. It was a miniature horse like the idea for the--

DAVE 00:50	They preferred to be called little horses.

LEX 00:52	And you know the miniature horse is getting really picky about that too.[chuckles]

DAMIAN 00:58	Exactly. We wanted to photo shoot to be like-- before each album you, generally have to do a big photo shoot so that you've got, you've got extra pictures every time there's a magazine that wants to run something.

DAMIAN 01:11	You go and you try to get like 20 shots or something so you set up all these different things. For this one, we're like we're just going to be-- it will be like a normal photo shoot except something will be wildly wrong with each picture like there will be-- the fifth member of the band will be a miniture horse, for instance. And so we had this miniature horse there and my dog went nuts. My dog was on the photo shoot and I've got this little tiny dog that's about like 12 pounds and she actually thought that she could take on this, i don't know, probably 200-pound horse. I have some really good video of a tiny dog screaming at a, well, a tiny horse.

LEX 01:50	How did the tiny horse take it?

DAMIAN 01:51	Tiny horse did not give a shit. Tiny horse was just--

LEX 01:55	Tiny Horse don't give a shit. Before we get too much further, Damian, tell the listeners-- Any of whom don't already know will be severely punished. But tell the listeners who you are.

DAMIAN 02:05	My name is Damian Kulash. I'm the singer for a band called OK Go and I do some other stuff.

DAVE 02:12	What kind of other stuff?

DAMIAN 02:15	Our band does a lot of things, we make pretty crazy videos. I think that's the thing we're the most famous for. We are those treadmill dudes.

LEX 02:26	Normally on the show, I'm the treadmill dude, but I was thinking about this all week, that you are going to be the treadmill dude. I work at a treadmill desk. I work on a treadmill [crosstalk]--

DAMIAN 02:34	Really?

LEX 02:35	Yeah.

DAMIAN 02:36	My God.

LEX 02:37	I've always thought that we have a special connection.

DAMIAN 02:40	How many miles do you walk on a day?

LEX 02:43	Today was 12, it is anywhere between 10 and 16.

DAMIAN 02:47	You're like a highly healthy person, aren't you?

LEX 02:49	No, that's-- I take the treadmill desk as an excuse to eat more junk food because like, 'Well, I'm burning 4000 extra calories today, anyway.' I think I'm normally height-weight proportional, but I'm not super healthy. Instead of being healthy, instead of going to the gym or doing any kind of exercise, I just walk all day long.

DAVE 03:08	What I do is just walk around my building carrying my laptop all day.

LEX 03:11	Strap around your neck.

DAMIAN 03:13	I do none of those things. I got no excuses. I got no walking around period.

LEX 03:20	How many times did you rehearse the treadmill video though, because I feel like that was probably a life's long workout.

DAMIAN 03:25	It was about ten days of rehearsal and I probably did not. I’m sure you’ve outdone me already.

LEX 03:31	[laughter] It has been a few years.

DAMIAN 03:35	Being on stage is actually super, super cardio intensive. There's a lot of-- Singing itself is pretty-- it takes a lot of energy actually. If you are going to sing for an hour and a half and run around the stage and so forth.

LEX 03:52	I also think by the way that I get some kind of award, because the first time I saw you was 2001, and I feel like that's early.

DAMIAN 03:58	That is early, yeah. That's about as early as it can be. We started touring maybe in 2000 with the first show we really played outside of Chicago with This American Life. We were their backup band because they did a tour around, I think, in 2000. By 2001 we were touring pretty much full time.

LEX 04:18	You were opening for They Might Be Giants.

DAMIAN 04:21	Oh yeah, that is definitely early then.

DAVE 04:23	I don't think I saw you guys until you played the Beer Bash at WWDC a couple of years ago.

DAMIAN 04:28	Right. We did do that. [chuckles]

DAVE 04:31	You may recall--

DAMIAN 04:33	I didn't know it. I didn't know it was called a Beer Bash until just now. The WWDC is coming back up again, right?

LEX 04:40	Yes.

DAMIAN 04:41	I know this because we are now app developers and we released our first app last week--

LEX 04:46	[joking] And nobody noticed.

DAMIAN 04:47	Yeah, and nobody noticed. It's amazing. It was so-- It's an editor's pick at the app store and we're between 400,000 and 500,000 users now in the first week.

DAVE 05:00	Wow.

LEX 05:01	First of all, I have to say two things. One, it's a good game and people should go get it. It's called '"Say The Same Thing," right?

DAMIAN 05:07	Yes, it is called "Say the Same Thing," which leaves very little to the imagination. That's the point in it--

LEX 05:11	Even better though-- Well, not even better. It's a fun game. I keep turning people onto it. I am a fan of word games. I am a fan of silly games, and this is both, but it also has really good music for the in game notifications and the push notification things.

DAVE 05:26	As you would expect.

DAMIAN 05:27	You should actually thank Propellerheads for that. Most of that stuff comes from the software suite Reason-- the Propellerheads' Reason. Most of that stuff is directly out of Reason. They have a pack called Soul School and we do love soul music.

LEX 05:43	That's pretty soulful.

DAMIAN 05:45	It's very soulful. It's a game-- for people who don't know either our band nor the game, the game has nothing to do with the band. There's no--It's not about our music. It's not about our videos. There's no tour date's-- most bands who released apps are doing it as some sort of promotional stunt for their band and this actually-- We saw this more as - like the same reason we would write a song which is to give people some awesome experience that makes them happy. We decided we would make an app and if we would make a game app, that is an awesome experience that makes people happy.

DAVE 06:17	What a lofty goal!

LEX 06:18	To get into making a game, I feel like you must also be a person who enjoys games. What kind of games do you play, that you don't make?

DAMIAN 06:26	I really like untimed games. I really like Trism. Do you know Trism?

DAVE 06:33	I remember Trism. That was one of the first big iOS games.

DAMIAN 06:35	I still play it all the time. Trism and Hexic which is, I think, on XBox; one of the XBoxs. The studio where we do our records-- we work from 12 to midnight usually when we're recording and once you get done at midnight it's-- absolutely not listening to music. I'm absolutely into doing anything with my brain and so I sit down in front of the video game thing an play Trism and it's a-- I'm sorry I play Hexic which is- it's like a hexagon that you have to spin to make colors line up blah, blah, blah but basically, I like those kinds of games. I like non- stressful games. I don't like time based things were I leave with more anxiety than I [inaudible].

DAVE 07:17	I'm absolute with you on this. I can't do-- I can't handle first-person shooters for that reason. I can't do most-- I don't think I've ever done online multiplayer with my Xbox. I just can't handle it.

DAMIAN 07:27	I don't - I've, when I was a kid I had a Commodore 64 and I like to play Rive Raid. That's about as far as it got with blowing shit up. I'm an aggressively non-violent person if that can even make any sense. I don't find-- I don't get any joy in the sort of blow up factor of things so first-person shooters have never been my thing particularly.

Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

LEX 07:55	I have two issues with first-person shooters. One is that like you, I'm not inte

rested in shooting at things and I just feel bad about all the destruction and life devastation. I worry about the bad guys' families [laughter], but then I also-- with any 3D games, even for me-- people got so excited about Super Mario 64. I can't play it. It's like my brain can't handle it. It's partially a bad sense of direction and just a feeling of constantly being literally lost, and walking around this 3D world so I can find my way anywhere, but also I have a hard time seeing that synthetic 3D effect on the 2D screen. I'm just bad at it.

DAVE 08:31	You like to stick to games like Hangman?

LEX 08:34	I like the Madden, that is basically what I play. I play Madden and Mario Kart. Those are my games.

DAVE 08:39	Your favorite iOS game is calculator.

DAMIAN 08:41	It's a good one. You can make it say, boobies if you do that upside down.[laughter]

DAMIAN 08:51	I have a similar thing. I think it's sort of the uncanny valley is what it is. The closer these games get to feeling sort of real, the more unhappy I am that they're not real. When you're looking around on a 3D space and it doesn't shift with your expectations, it just makes me feel claustrophobic. I actually have the same thing-- we've been asked a lot of times to do 360-degree videos. There's always 360-degree cameras now and you can shoot these incredible things and then a user or a viewer can then watch-- they can pick which direction they want to watch while they're watching a video. While it's an incredible technology, it sort of ruins the video making aspect, because you can no longer curate what people are watching.

DAVE 09:49	There's another side of that which is if you've got - let's say it's the band - the 360-degree shot of the band. Is there any analytics you could do, where you could see who's getting the most attention? That could mess up off too.

DAMIAN 10:02	That's suppose a good point, I imagine there are analytic's for that but as a viewer actually like when I watch the 360 videos, I know that I'm watching maybe 90 degrees so there's 270 I'm not seeing and it just makes-- again, it leaves me with more anxiety than I came with, but it's somebody doing something really awesome behind me right now.

LEX 10:29	It's like the Choose Your Own Adventure books. I had to read all of the endings.

DAMIAN 10:32	Really? Did you--

LEX 10:33	Yeah. Because I couldn't stand going through like, 'Did I choose wrong.' I will hold my fingers and all the different pages and I would have to keep going back and figuring out what the other story lines were because I wasn't going to miss out on it.

DAVE 10:45	I have enough anxiety about my choices in life. I don't need them in a book too.

DAMIAN 10:51	Can you do that in your life too? Have you actually-- have you been like, 'I will marry you but mark this moment because we may come back.

DAVE 10:57	Take a snapshot and then we'll come back if I don't like the marriage. That would be a really great premise for a Sci-Fi movie.

DAMIAN 11:03	Yeah.

LEX 11:04	Okay, if you say so. [chuckles]

DAVE 11:07	You disagree? You don't think that make a good movie?

LEX 11:09	No, it could. Really, I'll tell you truth-- I was distracted because I was thinking about my six-year old who's a precocious reader, who the first time she saw a Choose Your Own Adventure book, immediately understood what she was supposed to do but she was like, 'No I'm not going to do that...' And so she read it from front to back which of course makes no sense at all. [chuckle] I just was thinking about how weird that is and whether I wanted to tell the story or not. I decided yes, by the way.

DAMIAN 11:30	Did she enjoy it? Is that an art project or is that a poem? [chuckles]

DAVE 11:34	It probably read like a Charlie Kaufman script.

LEX 11:38	My daughter is, I think, a young Charlie Kaufman. Literally, just two days before we recorded this, we were in the car together and she said, 'Daddy, I'm going to pretend that I live in a world where it's impossible to pretend where I want to pretend that it's impossible to pretend but I can't because it's impossible to pretend,' so I believe that my daughter is Charlie Kaufman.

DAMIAN 12:01	That's pretty deep, man.

LEX 12:02	I tell you, we were both really high at the time. [laughter]

DAMIAN 12:04	I was going to say, 'Pass the joint, man.' [laughter]

DAVE 12:08	It was after eight. [laughter] Oh, just now realized no one's going to get that.

DAMIAN 12:14	We started our pre-show discussion explaining that I'm allowed to have an alcoholic drink now because it's after eight.

LEX 12:23	I'm going to break the rules for a second and I'm going to ask you one work-related question just because I'm curious and I am fearful that you must get this question all the time which makes it even worse of me--

DAVE 12:31	Where do you get your ideas--

LEX 12:33	No. I just--[laughter] What percentage of your fans are fans to the band enough that they know and love you, but inattentive enough that they don't realize the person lip-syncing the lyrics in your videos isn't always you. That the person who's lip-syncing isn't always the actual singer? Does everybody know or are people frequently confused, do they seem surprised in concerts when it's you singing?

DAMIAN 12:56	I don't know. I wish I had a good answer for you. I don't know how many people get it wrong. It's certainly less that it used to be. The treadmill video came out, I think, in 2006 and basically we assumed like everybody else that that meant we we're now one hit wonder. When something is that huge that quickly and especially for such ridiculous reasons you kind of know that's what it's gonna be on your tombstone and everything else was not going to be on your tombstone.

DAVE 13:31	As far as tombstone messages goes, it's not terrible--[laughter]

DAMIAN 13:36	It's like like the treadmill dude says... [laughter] We decided, at that point, basically, that we could either go the sort of radiohead route and go like, 'we hate that song we never playing that again' and try to be to cool for the success of something or embrace why it had succeeded? Which was that it was ridiculous, it was unexpected, it was joyful and it wasn't trying to be cool. It was playing in a space that most people don’t play in. That was when YouTube wasn’t an enormous company and before they're were Madison Avenue firms that would sell you "a viral video" and so we realized, okay we'll just double down. We'll make more crazy videos. We'll make more crazy stuff in general. Let's stop trying to make things for the industry that we're in and just start making things that we think are awesome and a lot of those are videos. Obviously, this week, we released our app and we've been doing art projects and we sort of chase the things we want to chase and right after that moment, yes, Tim-- the fact that Tim was lip-syncing in that video and I was singing on stage was an incredibly surprising to people.

LEX 15:00	I love that.

DAMIAN 15:01	I think that within a year or two-- it's now what-- five or seven years. The people who have stuck around long enough to watch more than one of the things we've made start to get the point--

LEX 15:14	Start to figure it out.

DAVE 15:15	Your comment a minute ago about either the Radiohead thing of we hate this song whenever we play it, we're just embracing it. That's incredibly interesting to me. It's funny you see the bands who have the one big hit song. They will get up on stage and you can tell they just hate playing it and I know for me if I had a hit song I would just embrace it.

DAMIAN 15:33	You say that now. [laughter]

DAVE 15:37	Do you really get tired of playing it. Do you really get tired of hearing it?

DAMIAN 15:41	Yes, but I am-- but I happen to be one of the embracers. Yes, I get-- I don't know the lyrics of most of our songs anymore because when we play them live they just happen like it's muscle memory and if we haven't played for a month or so and I actually have to think about what I'm going to say. What's going to come out of my mouth? I can't do it. I actually don't know any lyrics to our songs until I just start playing them and then they come out.

DAVE 16:07	I'm the same way.

DAMIAN 16:09	I still feed off the crowd. It's really exciting to-- when people get really excited about a song, then I'm really excited about a song, but I definitely do not like listening to our records. Every once in a while I will be at a bar or in a shopping mall or something and one of our songs will come on and I won't know if us. I will hear it and I'll be like,'I kind of like this song' [chuckles] and then [crosstalk]'wait that's us' and then I realized, okay, I genuinely don't hate our music because if I can hear it and now know it's us, I think I like it then probably I like it. If I'm at a friend's house and they put on our record. It's like, 'that's absolutely not.' It's just like listening to yourself on an answering machine or like reading your college term papers again. It's not-- it's just 'that's the past.'

LEX 17:03	When it does come on, do you only hear things you would do differently now or is it just that it's just awkward to listen to yourself.

DAMIAN 17:12	It's awkward to listen to yourself-- there's a character that you are when you're singing the song. It is yourself but it is still a version of yourself. I mean, I was just about to say do you think Elliot Smith actually sat everyday of his life when I realized actually probably [crosstalk]--

LEX 17:34	Probably.

DAMIAN 17:35	But there-- Elvis Costello was sing a ballad and then he'll sing Pump It Up and when he sing a ballad, he's being a different Elvis Costello than he is when he sing Pump It Up, right? When I hear a version of me from 5 years ago trying to be an emotion. Again, it's sort of uncanny valley. It's not hearing myself. I'm hearing somebody who's trying to be me.

DAVE 18:05	Even more literally like Ben Folds. He writes in character a lot. He'll name his characters in the song.

LEX 18:11	I am always amused when artists and bands name themselves in creative ways and then fail to see or fail to anticipate how annoying it will be to get associated that way. I'm thinking specifically of Hootie and the Blowfish. You call yourselves Hootie and the Blowfish and then you get mad for the rest of your life and people call you Hootie, and I really feel like all you have to blame is yourself. You can't call your band Hootie and the Blowfish if you don't want to be identified as the front man as Hootie.

DAVE 18:36	I think there's a line. I think that sometimes you make a decision that seems funny, and it just wears on you over time because the joke gets old. [chuckles]

DAMIAN 18:44	I think generally people who wind up hating that stuff are really, really lucky because they were making the joke when that thing happen in the first place. They were like, 'let's call ourselves like Fuckstick' [laughter] and then later they're like, 'oh my god, Fuckstick got really popular.' It's a complete accident that their joke became popular.

LEX 19:10	I always think about that if the Beatles hadn't been great, their name would have been embarrassingly bad.

DAVE 19:14	Dave Grohl said that if he had known how popular the band would be, he wouldn't have called it the Foo Fighters.

DAMIAN 19:19	I'm with both of those statements. The Beatles is one of the worst names ever. They're definitely the best band, ever, but they're-- it's a terrible, terrible name.

LEX 19:29	I really thought--

DAMIAN 19:30	[inaudible] or something.

LEX 19:33	Not many people seem to love Tom Hanks's film That Thing You Do, which I think is an awesome movie but--

DAVE 19:40	The Wonders--

LEX 19:42	Where he has them called 'The Wonders' [The Oneders] and they keep getting miscalled as the [Oh-need-ers]?

DAMIAN 19:46	We played-- I know I don't supposed to talk about work but we played [chuckles].

DAVE 19:50	We're having a hard time not.

DAMIAN 19:52	We played at President Obama's birthday party, his 50th birthday party and--

DAVE 19:56	Wow, humblebrag [laughter].

DAMIAN 19:57	Exactly. No, but he-- and so he came out afterwards to thank the three bands that had played, which it was-- it was Jennifer Hudson, Herbie Hancock, and us and of course. Our name, if you don't know you're reading a band name, it's just Okay, Go, or just two words you see all the time. Someone had helpfully parenthetically after that put a description of us. He came out and said, 'Thank you OK Go Band!' [laughter]

DAMIAN 20:32	He was like, 'Herbie Hancock, who was one of my favorite all time musician and of course OK Go Band.' [chuckles] It was so funny.

Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

LEX 20:43	Which is, by the way, not a terrible bad name.

DAMIAN 20:45	Okay Go Band is not too bad.

DAVE 20:47	It's got to be impressive to your parents, at least. You had your band name sort of messed up by the president.

DAMIAN 20:55	He actually had gotten it right before that actually. We've also-- during his campaign for his first term, he was giving a speech at University of Wyoming where we happened to be playing the same night so he asked us to come, be a fellow Chicago musician on stage with them, whatever and so-- There's actually on YouTube somewhere, there's him being like, 'Thank you, OK Go,' and he got it right that time but--

LEX 21:23	You do not do a bad Obama, by the way.

DAMIAN 21:27	I feel like mine sounds a little bit southern and way too white but-- [laughter]

DAVE 21:34	If you go too black then you're in a dangerous--

DAMIAN 21:36	That's true. It's better to go two way with him. There was-- You were [inaudible] learning people's voices in there and their face's-- oh gosh what's his name a comedian that died a few year's ago super, super funny...

LEX 21:56	You are referring to - I know exactly what you mean - the one who had a long time drug problem.

DAMIAN 22:01	Yes.

DAVE 22:02	I was going to say Mitch Hedberg.

DAMIAN 22:03	Mitch Hedberg, exactly, that's him.

LEX 22:05	You win.

DAMIAN 22:06	He actually, in fact he has a joke which is, 'I used to do drugs. I still do but I used to also?' [laughter] Yes. I heard him before I saw him and I thought he was hilarious. I still do think he is hilarious, but then saw-- and went on YouTube and watch some and I found his visual person just like destructive to the humor.

DAVE 22:34	Really?

DAMIAN 22:35	Not only because he was white, which I didn't think he was, from his delivery, but also because he was sort trying to be-- there is something about him that it spoke all sort of cultural signifiers. He wore a type jacket and sunglasses. He was a character of a type that his voice was not.

DAVE 22:56	Did you ever see his really early stuff where he wasn't doing the character?

DAMIAN 23:00	I don't think so, no, is it great?

DAVE 23:03	It's really weird and its just some guy-- it's like watching some guy get up and do Mitch Hedberg's material having only ever read it.

DAMIAN 23:11	The character - that's whole slurred guy - that was a put up?

DAVE 23:16	Yeah, but almost kind of has like maybe brain damage or something. No that was all character for him or at least there was a transition [chuckles].

LEX 23:23	There was a time before it was his reality.

DAVE 23:26	I won't say that it was 100% character, but I will say that there was a time when he did not sound like that.

DAMIAN 23:30	The version I'm thinking of does not have brain the damage, but then again maybe your brain is a lot better than mine, but there is that he sort of laughing at himself the whole time.

LEX 23:42	My favorite funny person to see out of character is Gilbert Gottfried.

DAVE 23:46	I've never seen him out of character. Does he not do the voice?

LEX 23:48	He doesn't do the voice--

DAVE 23:51	I've always assumed that was his natural speaking voice.

LEX 23:53	He doesn't squint. He can be--

DAVE 23:54	Really?

LEX 23:55	Yeah. He can be totally normal and still very funny. I understand why he sticks with it, but he can-- he's normal.

DAVE 24:00	How do you even come up with that character? I'm just going to scream and squint. That's going to be my thing.

DAMIAN 24:05	Have you ever met Teller?

DAVE 24:06	No.

LEX 24:06	I have met Teller.

DAMIAN 24:08	Because guess what, Teller talks.

DAVE 24:10	Yeah, but not talking that I get. Squinting and screaming, that's a--

LEX 24:14	It's a weird character come up with.

DAMIAN 24:16	The [squint?].

LEX 24:17	Speaking of not talking, let's all not talk to each other for a moment and instead acknowledge this episode's fine, fine sponsors.

DAMIAN 24:25	That was slick. That was-- man, you are a pro [laughter]. I don't want to talk about your job too much because they know we're not allowed to but you just did your job great style [laughter].

LEX 24:37	Dave, two sponsors today if you can believe that.

Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

DAVE 24:40	I love it when we have two sponsors.

LEX 24:42	Yeah, it's pretty great. The firs

t one is from a little company you might know called Microsoft and it's for Windows Azure Mobile Services. If you're a developer and you haven't heard of or started using Windows Azure, you're making a huge mistake and we're going to fix it for you right now.

DAVE 24:58	Let's solve that problem.

LEX 24:59 Windows Azure Mobile Services makes it faster and easier to build a cloud-connected iOS app. I don't know if any of you who have tried to make cloud-connected iOS apps in the past have ever tried to use something called iCloud but I hear it's unpleasant. Mobile services from Windows takes care of the glue necessary for storing data in the cloud. It takes care of things like authenticating users whether it's via Facebook or Twitter. It takes care of sending push notifications. I have literally written the code for sending push notifications using APNS and fought with it and battle with it in sworn and been angry and full of hate and Windows Azure instead takes all of the pain away. You just say, 'Hey Windows, send this push notification' and it does.

DAVE 25:41	You make it sound like the old ways, The Path of the Dark Side.

LEX 25:44	[chuckles] It was horrible!	It was my least favorite thing about building an app besides the fact that nobody bought my app.

DAVE 25:50	I bought your app.

LEX 25:51	I appreciate that, but configuring push notifications gets complex quickly with mobile services adding push to your iOS app is as simple as typing push.apns.send and specifying the device token and the payload you want to send to it. If you are looking to build an iOS app, or the connect an app you already have built, take a look at Windows Azure Mobile Services.

LEX 26:11	You can get started today for free. Here's where you going to go. You're going to www.windowsazure.com/ios. Again, it's www.windowsazure.com/ios and I just want to be clear. I would not say the www unless it is important and in this case, it is. Go there, check it out, go to www.windowsazure.com/ios because anybody who has dealt with the pain of cloud sinking, push notifications, log in, and etcetera, should be looking for a better easier way and believe it or not, Microsoft has it for you.

DAVE 26:44	The interesting thing about Windows Azure Mobile Services is that you get some things with Azure that you can't get from iCloud and I won't make any jokes about the stability or [inaudible], but you get things like-- if you want to have authentication data storage that you can use on platforms that aren't just Apple's.

LEX 27:01	So you can go between devices and--

DAVE 27:05	If you're doing sync between an Android app or Windows app and iOS app, you can't do that without iCloud.

LEX 27:11	But you can with Windows Azure Mobile Services so check those guys out.

DAVE 27:18	Guess who else we have today?

LEX 27:20	I'm going to guess Ford.

DAVE 27:23	You are so close.

LEX 27:24	All right, you tell me.

DAVE 27:26	Smile.

LEX 27:27	You know what? That was close because they are both excellent.

DAVE 27:31	That is both the name of the other sponsor and an instruction and an instruction to you. I want you to smile Lex.

LEX 27:37	I'm smiling right now.

DAVE 27:38	I can hear you're beaming over Skype.

LEX 27:41	Yes, I am.

DAVE 27:44	Which Smile app do we want to talk about today?

LEX 27:46	The thing is they're all great.

DAVE 27:48	They are and I love PDFpen. I'm a huge PDFpen fan but they've got TextExpander, which you're a huge fan of. I don't even know where to start. They just make so much great stuff and they do so many great things I don't know where to begin.

LEX 28:01	You said that you love PDFpen. Tell me, do you love the iPhone version? Is that we're talking about?

DAVE 28:06	Yes. I also love it with Mac but I specially love it on the phone because anytime-- Here's a kind of a story, years and years ago, I ran a website dedicated to--let's call it fucking off, and I want to get interviewed by the Wall Street Journal about using technology to slack off at work.

DAVE 28:26	The stuff that I was talking about at that time - I mean this is years ago - things like being able to use my Handspring Visor to log into a shell console, and whatever. I've always been a big fan of anything that lets me do work when I'm not sitting at my desk. I don't think it's so much about laziness as it is. I want to be able to do things wherever I am. I don't want to be confined.

LEX 28:45	I'm sure.

DAVE 28:46	I'm not an animal. You can't cage me in, man.

LEX 28:48	No, I can't.

DAVE 28:49	To be able to take PDFpen on my phone - let's say I'm at a store, I'm at the beach; that sounds great, and you have something you need me to sign, I can just do it. That is amazing. That's the future.

LEX 29:00	If Apple built a PDF manipulation app for the iPhone, I feel like it would look a whole lot like a PDFpen does. They've got the same document viewer. You can sync with iCloud and Dropbox and everything else and it's just good. It has all the features you want. It makes them work on that little, tiny screen. It's killer.

DAVE 29:18	Apple's Preview app on the Mac has that-- has annotation tools and you can do the signature thing PDFpen on both Mac and iPhone beats the crap out of that.

LEX 29:28	That's true.

DAVE 29:29	You say "what Apple would do." I say "better than what Apple has done."

LEX 29:33	You're right. Especially if you ever try to fill out a PDF that doesn't have fields built into it using preview. It's just so much work.

DAVE 29:40	It's awful.

LEX 29:41 PDFpen on the Mac? Not work. Just effortless.

DAVE 29:45	It is all of the things we had wished Adobe Acrobat would have been. [chuckles] And so much more.

LEX 29:51	For Smile, to look at all of Smile's apps, go to <a href="http://smilesoftware.com/unpro">smilesoftware.com/unpro</a> and listen, when you check out at Smile on the Web, if you buy one of their Mac apps and you're checking out, they have a thing that says, 'Where did you hear about this?' Make sure you put in Unprofessional there too so that they know that we sent you.

DAVE 30:07	We love them and they love us. We want them to know that you also loved them--

LEX 30:12	And us--

DAVE 30:15	It all ties together.

LEX 30:17	Anyway, thanks to Microsoft and to Smile for sponsoring and check them both out. While you're at it, go visit us at twitter, app.net or facebook, all slash unprofesh.

DAVE 30:30	Or at unprofesh.com.

LEX 30:32	Is that on the internet?

DAVE 30:35	I'm pretty sure it is. If it's not, let me know.

LEX 30:39	I will but in the meantime, what say we get back to the show?

DAVE 30:42	Let's--

DAMIAN 30:44	I recently was reminded of my babysitter Gladys when I was a child and how she called me Damon. 'Good boy Damon' and how she hated my sister and called her bad girl Tisha [laughter]. Both of my grandfathers were notable. One of my grandfathers invented the modern fish stick and my other grandfather discovered a species of click beetle.

LEX 31:11	I'm confused for a second, was there a premodern fish stick?

DAMIAN 31:14	Yeah.

LEX 31:16	What was the difference in the old school fish stick before we got to the modern fish stick?

DAMIAN 31:21	Before the modern era fish stick was. We [chuckles] people--

LEX 31:27	We'll call it BFS. [laughter]

DAMIAN 31:31	People ate frozen fish. That did happened. They even would eat frozen breaded fish, but if you wanted to package frozen breaded fish you would have to put six or seven pieces in. How ever many pieces would kind of get close to the weight that you said on a box. My grandfather came along and discovered the biochemical reaction by which you can chop up a whole bunch of fish and freeze them into a Shape and then when you heat them up they don't lose that shape. That means you can make sticks. Actual fish sticks, as opposed to fish parts.[laughter]

LEX 32:09	Was this part of his job, or was this like a hobby?

DAMIAN 32:11	This was part of his job. He worked for General Food.

DAVE 32:14	I'm imagining him toiling away in a laboratory in his basement.

DAMIAN 32:17	He was toiling away in a laboratory, but he was trying them away in a laboratory at General Food which was-- he was a biochemist and then went off to war in World War II and came back to work for General Foods which was a giant food corporation.

DAVE 32:35	I was thinking more like Breaking Bad with fish.

DAMIAN 32:37	I wish it had been that way. He was kind of like-- He was kind of like that but he was really into food stuff and in fact-- he got a patent for fish sticks but when he was working at General Foods so the patent belong to General Foods and then they didn’t do anything with it. They didn’t think it was marketable, so he actually left to start a fish stick company thereafter and then wound up competing with General Foods who once heated well decided 'Oh, that's a great idea.' He didn't make a lot of fish sticks.

DAMIAN 33:04	He did get really into fish - I'm sorry - food technology in general. There was-- he always had a [inaudible] machine in his house. He had a donut maker that couldn't make fewer than twelve dozen donuts in a single batch. You couldn't be like, 'I'd like a doughnut.' You had to get 144 donuts.

LEX 33:25	[chuckle] See that's always my problem with-- we have a six-donut maker so we don't have that specific donut problem but my problem with popcorn is that I only want-- I want two handfuls of popcorn--

DAVE 33:36	What is the matter with you? Nobody wants two handfuls of pop-- That's the problem with popcorn, is that everybody wants to eat it, eat it, and eat it, and eat it, and eat it.

LEX 33:42	No, that's just why I want to make two handfuls. Because if I make the whole thing-- because we have an old fashioned popper that my wife got me for my birthday one year. You have to fill it up to the right line. You do that, you get like two bags of popcorn. Its' not like I am going to stop eating after a normal amount of popcorn. I am going to eat all of the fucking popcorn. I want to make just two handfuls so I'm forced to stop, but I can't do that.

Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

DAVE 34:02	You know what I really-- for wishing for things, what I really wish for is self

control. [laughter]

DAMIAN 34:06	That'll be great.

DAVE 34:07	Like Halloween candy, you buy those bags of Halloween candy. I can't eat one Reese's Peanut Buttercup. I only eat one pound of Reese's Peanut Buttercup.

DAMIAN 34:15	There is where it is. When you say you buy those bags, you just don't buy those bags. You can't buy those bags because there is no not eating those bags.

DAVE 34:22	I agree. That's why children in my neighborhood hates me.

LEX 34:26	Do you give out nothing on Halloween?

DAVE 34:28	I live in a building where you need a code to get in anywhere. There are no kids trick or treating. I've never got trick or treaters.

LEX 34:31	They hate you for other reasons.

DAVE 34:34	They probably would, but they don't actively.

LEX 34:37	Two great facts about fish sticks, by the way--

DAVE 34:41	Are you Wikipediaing fish sticks, man?

LEX 34:42	I have nothing to admit on that topic but in the United Kingdom after World War II there was a glut of herring which, by the way, would be another good name for a band if anyone out there--

DAMIAN 34:52	Glut of Herring, Glut of Herring.

LEX 34:55	A fellow by the name of Clarence Birdseye test marketed herrings[crosstalk]--

DAVE 34:59	That is not his real name--

LEX 35:01	And he called them herring savories. Just so you know, Clarence Birdseye in the UK with herring savories after having learned of fish sticks in the United States?

DAMIAN 35:10	After having learned of my grandfather's invention; thank you very much, Clarence.

LEX 35:14	That's right.

DAVE 35:15	Clarence totally ripped your grandfather off. [crosstalk]

LEX 35:17	His name is so much better than I said because he's real name was Clarence Frank Birdseye II.

DAVE 35:22	Oh my god.

DAMIAN 35:22	Wait, the second?

DAVE 35:23	Better than first.

DAMIAN 35:24	Wait, do you know that means also that-- I'm a junior-- I'm Damian Joseph Kulash Jr. and my understanding is that you're a junior if you have an identical name, and you're a second, if you have some part of it that is different. That means his father was Clarence something else Birdseye. He wasn't Frank--

LEX 35:43	That's totally not my understanding. I thought-- you probably are right, especially as a junior, but I thought it was, if it's just your father, then you're the junior. As soon as you have a descendant whom you also named Damian, boom. Now you're the second, because he's gotta be the third.

DAMIAN 35:55	There's a big pressure for me to do that but Martin Luther King, what is he going to become third after he is dead. You can't do that. I mean second. Sorry.

LEX 36:04	Right, that's good point. If you die [crosstalk]--

DAVE 36:07	I think if you [crosstalk] [inaudible] you're just a junior. You're going to hang on the name--

DAMIAN 36:11	No, but that's cruel. That's--

? 36:11	[crosstalk] you can't actually change your name--

DAMIAN 36:13	But that's super cruel to your descendants because that's sort of being like, 'guys, you're just not important enough to-- Your father was way more important. He gets to keep the Junior. Your third doesn't matter.'

LEX 36:25	You're recycling your name for this second time so--

DAMIAN 36:30	As a junior, my desire to maybe name my child the same name actually is an homage to my father. I'm a big, big fan of my parents and if I were to name a child it would not be after myself. It would be after my father.

LEX 36:50	I like that.

DAVE 36:51	There's something logistically sound about the idea of junior if it's literally the same name; second, if there's a difference. My grandfather was John something Wiskus. My dad was John [Rey?] Wiskus or he is I guess. I guess he would've been a junior but could have been John Wiskus II.

DAMIAN 37:10	He could have been 2.0.

DAVE 37:14	I was supposed to be the third and my mom vetoed that. Thanks mom.

DAMIAN 37:18	Would you have preferred to have a Roman numeral in your name for the rest of your life?

DAVE 37:14	I'm already considering just adopting the Esquire.

DAMIAN 37:27	That's not a Roman numeral--

DAVE 37:27	Any extra stuff I can add it in my name. I'm totally okay with that.

DAMIAN 37:30	To do the Esquire, you have to be a lawyer in Britain.

DAVE 37:34	No. You can just add it. That's a good thing about Esquire.

LEX 37:36	I have a buddy, an internet friend really, named John Hargrave, and he really wanted to be knighted. He wanted to be Sir John Hargrave and he wrote to the queen and requested knighthood and was denied.

DAVE 37:48	[chuckles] Did they write back.

LEX 37:51	They did write back. [inaudible] on Buckingham Palace stationery.

DAVE 37:57	I would frame that.

LEX 37:58	But so, he legally changed his name. His first name is now Sir, his middle name is John, and his last name is Hargrave. He is now Sir John Hargrave.

DAMIAN 38:04	Can you guys hear my dog freaking out over here? There's a-- it's summertime in New York City where I am and that means people start shooting off fireworks, and my dogs, they hate my works and they are freaking.

DAVE 38:18	We don't hear any dogs.

DAMIAN 38:20	They're just panting. They don't bark. Now they just hide in closets and get-- At some point though I'm going to get them out.

DAVE 38:27	One of the fearful freaking?

DAMIAN 38:28	Yeah, the fearful freaking. They really hate this. This is the worst thing that could happen for them.

DAVE 38:33	My dog doesn't mind fireworks and she minds thunder. I don't know what it is.

DAMIAN 38:37	You're lucky. You're lucky on that. They're both street dogs from Los Angeles and I wonder if it because--

DAVE 38:43	From the hood?

DAMIAN 38:44	Yeah, from the hood, and I wonder if it's because there's no thunder in LA so they just never grew up with it all.

DAVE 38:52	Maybe, what kind of dogs are they?

DAMIAN 38:54	Tiny brown, medium black.[laughter] I mean, one of them is-- they're both infinite mixes of stuff, but one of them is kind of like looks like a Jack Russell-Chihuahua type of thing and the other one looks like a black lab type of thing.

DAMIAN 39:12	In fact, Bunny, you can see-- Bunny, the little one, is in our dog video. We have video that is a choreographed dog dance and she's actually in that video.

DAVE 39:20	My city dog is an Italian greyhound. She is about 10 pounds. Your dogs could probably take my dog.

DAMIAN 39:26	My dogs could probably beat her up but they wouldn't be able to catch her because she's fast, right.

DAVE 39:30	Yes. She's very, very fast. My dog is smart and fast.

LEX 39:33	My dog is very slow.

DAVE 39:35	You don't have a dog?

LEX 39:36	He died so he is very slow.

DAMIAN 39:38	That [inaudible] puts you real slow.

DAVE 39:41	Don't bring it down Lex.

LEX 39:42	He's my diabetic dog . I gave him two injections of insulin a day for years and years.

DAMIAN 39:46	How long did it make it?

LEX 39:48	He was a Maltese, and a diabetes diagnosis shortens their life expectancy from about 12 to about six years and he made it about six years.

He was on the insulin injections for three and a half of those year and they had to be twelve hours apart. You got plus or minus one hour so you can do eleven, you can do them thirteen hours apart but nothing more and nothing less. It really was like a serious hardcore life adjustments to make sure that you were always home-- the morning was easy because we did it during breakfast but you always had to make sure you're home at the right time to do the shot--

DAMIAN 40:20	Wow, it's a pretty morbid and evil question but did he pass because you missed? [laughter]

LEX 40:29	No one has ever asked that question.

DAVE 40:31	I was thinking it.

LEX 40:32	No, he did not. We didn't miss any.

DAVE 40:34	It's like having a kid with special needs. No, I think it's even worse because if it's a kid with special needs, that's like blood. You're going to do everything you can instinctively. For a dog, I think at a certain point after a number of years-- I love my dog, but after six years, there's going to be that voice in the back of my head like I don't have to go straight home after a movie.

LEX 40:53	Terrible. Charlie was my first pet. My parents hate animals so I never had any pets growing up. My wife and I got him about two months before we got married, may be less, but he would love the shots. When he heard you tearing open the cellophane on a new needle, he would come running because he knew he always got a treat after the shot so he looked forward to it.

LEX 41:14	[crosstalk] I only drew blood like ten times over three something years so it's not bad. Unintentionally made him bleed while doing the injection.

DAMIAN 41:22	I had to take little Bunny's temperature - the small one's name is Bunny - and I had to take her temperature last week when she had a sickness.

Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

DAVE 41:32	The fun way?

DAMIAN 41:33	Yeah, there's only one way to take a dog's temperature

s as far as I know and--

LEX 41:37	Which is go to the vet and run away screaming. That was my plan.

DAMIAN 41:40	It's a-- I feel we know each other better now. I'll put it that way.

LEX 41:46	Charlie always used to do the saddest whimper when the vet at would take his temperature which I could understand.

DAVE 41:52	My dog, Pixel, when the vet takes her temperature, she just gets this look on her face like, 'Whoa, wait. I'm not okay with this.'

DAMIAN 41:57	There's this just-- It's a total-- it's the confusion of logically out of bounds. We're now-- it's not just uncomfortable that cannot just happen. [laughter] But she does this thing-- we learned that if you give her a treat right as you insert the thermometer, she just kind of doesn't mind. She has this-- she adopts an attitude of I'm not totally okay with this, but as long as I'm getting treats, I'm going to let you do it.

DAMIAN 42:26	That's good. [laughter]

LEX 42:29	Reminds me of my first girlfriend. I don't know.

DAMIAN 42:31	Really?

LEX 42:33	No. [laughter]

DAMIAN 42:34	Because if you’re going to-- that was about to get really interesting. [laughter]

S? 42:39	That would have been such a great story.

DAVE 42:42	That was going to really be good story. You like to take her temperature?

DAMIAN 42:47	Yeah, where you get to know each other in a very advanced carnal way.

LEX 42:54	Is there any carnal way that isn't advanced? I don't know.

DAMIAN 42:58	[inaudible] There's a pretty standard base running metaphor that happens for children in the US and I don't think that anal temperature taking is one of the basis.

LEX 43:11	[chuckles] That's fair. 

DAMIAN 43:12	I don't know if everybody agrees on what's getting to first and second and third base is but I'm pretty sure that everybody agrees that anal temperature is not one of them.

LEX 43:22	I like that you made it sort of an American thing because now I feel if you take her temperature analy, that's cricket.[chuckle] Whatever--

DAMIAN 43:29	No, but I'm guessing--

DAVE 43:30	It's some un-American sport.

DAMIAN 43:32	I'm guessing--

DAVE 43:33	It's more like billiards.

DAMIAN 43:34	Where do they play cricket? They play cricket in South Africa and Thailand or something, right?

DAVE 43:39	England.

LEX 43:40	And Australia, as we learned recently.

DAMIAN 43:45	I'm sure that they don't-- I don't know, maybe they do say I got to first base. But I bet you they're like, 'Oh, man, I went out with that chick and I totally knocked down the wickets.'

LEX 43:54	[laughter] It totally happens.

DAMIAN 43:56	Maybe it's one wicket down or two, I don't know. I went to school in Namibia for a semester when I was in high school.

DAVE 44:07	Who didn't?

DAMIAN 44:12	I learned to play cricket for four-month period of time and I forgot how to play cricket. I don't remember how to play cricket anymore.

DAVE 44:20	Not well enough to draw a diagram for which thing might equal which sex act.

DAMIAN 44:26	Exactly. I can't expand upon the metaphor for you guys. I do no know that there's wickets involved and that you are allowed to hit the ball in any direction. Maybe there-- I suppose it could be a more sort of gender friendly game. They probably don't have the same kind of homophobia problems. Because people hit the ball which ever direction they feel like.

LEX 44:47	Good for them!

DAVE 44:48	That's very forward thinking.

DAMIAN 44:50	They don't have switch hitters so to speak. They just have people who smack the ball in whatever fucking direction they want.

DAVE 44:55	As long as [inaudible]

S? 45:04	I was trying to go in the golf direction [inaudible]--

DAMIAN 45:06	I was just thinking that maybe you're going to try to lift us out of the gutter but instead you smacked the balls.

LEX 45:11	Speaking of smacking the balls and the gutter[chuckles]. I really want to understand the evolutionary reasoning behind kinks in general. Because I don't-- many things I can't understand [crosstalk]--

DAMIAN 45:25	Like sexual things not the [inaudible] case.

LEX 45:28	Both. I want to know both but yes sexual things. Is there an evolutionary reason that people get into feet or spanking or, I don't know.

DAVE 45:40	Probably the same evolutionary reason why people like the exotic food.

LEX 45:43	Because it's different?

DAMIAN 45:44	Which is--

DAVE 45:45	Imagination, we just want to-- it's on our nature to explore to try new things.

LEX 45:49	I feel like if that were  true, and if there were more people then it wouldn't be so many common kinks because you could-- imagine... it could be like I'm totally into elbows, but it's really like you hear some of them very frequently and I want to know--

DAVE 46:01	You say that but if you look at history and all these different civilizations around the world wound up building pyramids. It's not that crazy to me in a bunch of different people who would like sticking things in their ass.

DAMIAN 46:11	Also, I think there's-- It's a misunderstanding of evolution to think that every behavior is evolutionary programmed-- evolutionary programmed. The behaviour could be just sort of the output of a machine that was evolutionary programmed to do lots of other things.

LEX 46:34	That was very true. No argument.

DAMIAN 46:34	For the most part if a foot fetish doesn't generate a child--

LEX 46:43	Often doesn't.

DAMIAN 46:44	It's not likely to be directly evolutionary anything, but if lust itself generates kids, then it might-- it may have-- there may be a good reason to-- If you were designing a species, you may want to set the lust meter all the way up. The more lust they have the more likely they are to fuck and then have kids.

LEX 47:07	No, you are convincing me they're like having any--

DAVE 47:10	Let's call it creative exploration of sexuality is evolutionary and the weird shit is just what do because we're weird.

LEX 47:16	I think the weird shit is because may be you want to get the genes from everybody like nature. Evolution doesn't necessarily care if you're super hot or not, we do for whatever reasons. As long as we're all vibrant, healthy humans who can make successful offspring--

DAMIAN 47:31	I want to interrupt you.

LEX 47:33	Go ahead.

DAMIAN 47:33	I think that actually, evolution cares more than you think it does. There's some study a few years ago about the symmetry of being beautiful that people-- That almost regardless of what one half of your face looks like, if you flip it on its axis, it will be beautiful to people. That women have a sort of optimum ratio of hips to waist for birthing is-- If you show heterosexual dudes just an outline like a - what it's called? - a silhouette of a woman's figure. The one they will pick as the sexiest is the one that is actually optimal for passing a child.

LEX 48:20	I'm totally with you on both of those, but all I'm saying is there are some-- I may be self feeding on my point here, but I'm just saying that finding feet attractive - let's say - or being turned on by them, ups the chances--

DAVE 48:33	You keep coming back to feet, are you trying to tell us something?

LEX 48:35	No, I'm not into feet. Spanking okay; but feet, no. But I'm just saying--

DAMIAN 48:40	Someone out there is got to love feet--

LEX 48:41	If you can find feet attractive then that means that you are may be going to find a partner who you would, otherwise, reject because they are not your type, but if you’re like, 'that person has got great feet so I don’t care that she’s hideously ugly' or 'I don’t mind that he smells bad because, man, look at those feet.' Does that went both ways? Either gender can like feet--

DAVE 49:01	But by the same logic, as long as the food we're eating keeps us alive, we shouldn't care what it taste like, but we do, and we seek out new and interesting combination of flavors.

LEX 49:10	I would say that the evolution is imperfect. We could eat-- If humans-- if we could do whatever we wanted, we would just eat Reese's Peanut Butter Cups all day and not worry about it because those taste the most delicious because evolution is flawed.

DAMIAN 49:24	It was not flawed.

LEX 49:25	It's a bug in the software though.

DAMIAN 49:27	No, it was a software that was designed for humans in a preindustrial society, right?

LEX 49:34	Sure, no--

DAMIAN 49:35	It works for us slowly--

S? 49:36	Before Reese's Peanut Butter Cups--

DAMIAN 49:37	It's not flawed. If you were living in a pre-agrarian society walking around just trying to find stuff. If you found berries, and they were sweet, then awesome. If you found meat, and it was salty and fatty, then awesome and if you happened to find a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup then fucking gold mine, right? The reason--

LEX 49:57	I will still say that it's flawed though. It made total sense at the time, but computers can't still only do what computers did 20 years ago, wouldn't work. If you sold a computer today that was like, 'Yes, this has no hard drive and it doesn't connect to the internet and the monitor is black and white.' It's a functional computer but it's flawed [crosstalk]--

DAMIAN 50:14	Contextually-- then yeah contextually it's flawed. In this context it's flawed. In the context that was designed for it was just go for it. You need all that stuff and I would say-- Here's my thinking on the kinks. Again, I'm just making this up but I just think-- Richard Dawkins says in his anti-religion [inaudible], one of the things is that he believes religion is essentially a thought virus that if you have a child, you tell--

S? 50:50	We talked. I love you. I wanna marry you right now.

DAMIAN 50:52	You tell this child--

DAVE 50:53	We're very pro-atheist show, by the way.

DAMIAN 50:55	You tell the child not to jump in the water because there's alligators in there and the child wants to jump in the water, anyways, get eaten by alligators, fucked, right? If you tell the child not to jump in the water, and it believes you, then great. It lives. There is a--

LEX 51:10	There's the evolutionary need to believe you so that they can survive.

DAMIAN 51:13	The faith-- there's an evolutionary reason for faith. That doesn't mean there's an evolutionary reason for religion. It means that there is a petri dish for religion and I would say that fetishes there’s a petri dish that lust and sexual desire are probably the petri dish for fetishes rather than the other way around.

LEX 51:31	I just want to marry you right now.

DAVE 51:33	Don't make it weird.

DAMIAN 51:34	Is this a fetish?

LEX 51:36	Yes, people talking about fetishes.

DAVE 51:39	He wants to stick a thermometer up your ass.

DAMIAN 51:40	But you're married, aren't you?

Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.


0 Likes 
Share
Clayton Morris — Jerry Was My Girlfriend (#41) Transcript

Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

This is a transcript of episode #41 of Unprofessional.

Dave Wiskus: Hey everybody, welcome to "Unprofessional." I'm one of your hosts, Dave Wiskus, joined by, I'm not going to say the most attractive man I've ever met, but definitely in the top 80, Mr. Lex Friedman.
Lex Friedman: Hi, Dave. It's great to be here with you again. [laughs] We're going super Mr. Rogers here. I don't know if you realize.
Dave: [laughs] We're also joined by this week's special guest/co-host Clayton Morris.
Clayton Morris: Hey guys. Where you were referring to best looking man and stopped when you didn't meet me yet, I was really about to be really flattered. I realized you hadn't met me.
Lex: [laughs] See, I didn't know if he was going to zig and introduce you first. When he had that big attractive build up.
Clayton: I was all prepared for my commentary. You zagged to Lex.. Hey, there's enough love to go around. He is an attractive man.
Dave: He is, he is.
Clayton: That's right.
Lex: Oh, you're too kind.
Dave: Going purely by avatar, I could have commented on you because I finally did see what you look like. You changed your avatar. It was something else for a while. When you recently, in the last few days, changed it.
Clayton: Yeah, it had been my avatar. I had a comic book version of myself up there since I started on Twitter way, way back, many, many moons ago. My buddy, who's an incredible comic book artist drew for me. I've just never felt the need to change it. With my daughter's first birthday, last week, I said, "She's going to get some props."
Dave: Yeah, there you go.
Clayton: She's earned it. I call it research for the show but you did a video review of the new Fitbit thing, that I watched.
Dave: Yeah, which I'm wearing right now.
Clayton: You might have sold me on it. I might have to hit the Apple store later. The thing with the other Fitbits are small ones, that they, "Do you guys? I wear them in my bra all the time. It gets stuck in the wash. They come out. They break. That's always the complaint." [laughs]
Every woman who's bought one of the original Fitbits or the Fitbit I. "Oh, I've lost like three of them or they've all broken."

Lex: I keep mine in my pocket. I like the Zip because I like keeping it in my pocket. I like not having to charge it. I like that the zip doesn't need to be charged which just uses a super cheap battery. I got five of the batteries for a dollar total. It lasts for six months at a time. Then, I just keep it with my wallet. When my wallet comes out, my Fitbit comes out. I have not yet put it through the wash.
Clayton: Now, with the zip though, it doesn't have Bluetooth, right.
Lex: No, it does, it does. It syncs to my phone.
Clayton: There's a couple things that are missing right?
Lex: It doesn't do flights of stairs, which neither does the Flex.
Clayton: Right. What does that mean? [crossrtalk]
Dave: Well, some of them...
Clayton: Oh, OK. OK.
Lex: It doesn't do sleep tracking at all.
Clayton: I need the sleep tracking, which the Flex says it does, but I don't know if that's true. It says it does sleep tracking. It's like the darkness control knob on a toaster. Hey, I live and die by that darkness control knob. That thing's not actually working. I looked at it the other day and I thought... Maybe it gets smarter, when I'm manually programming in certain sleep times and I'm up at weird hours. I'm up at 4:00 AM. It thinks that I'm being restless. No, I'm going to work. I'm not just being restless. Like I've got to pee and I'm up roaming around the house. That's me, getting up. It says restless or sleepy. I don't know what the other one is.
Lex: Are you toggling it out of sleep mode into awake mode? Are you doing the multi-repeated tap thing, so that it knows you're awake now?
Clayton: Sometimes.
Lex: [laughs] I'm placing the blame on you. Wait a second. We've got to pause for one second.
Dave: Yeah, we've got to move on down this path.
Lex: You haven't yet introduced yourself to the listeners. Tell the woefully uninformed, unprofessional listeners, who is Clayton Morris?
Clayton: I am a father. I'm a father of two kids.
Dave: I like how you lead with that.
Clayton: I'm a guitar player. Recently I started doing meditation. I'm also a news anchor. I'll throw that in there, on the side. And I cover technology for Fox News Channel. Those things, perhaps in that order, are the most important.
Dave: What kind of guitar do you play?
Clayton: I play a little acoustic. I kind of got back into it in the past...it's funny. My daughter has gotten me back into this stuff. She's a year old, but she's very advanced in music. She sways a lot.
Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

Dave: What does she play?
Lex: I do that too.
Clayton: She plays the spoon. She plays the wo
oden spoon on wooden floor. Have you heard of this?
Dave: I have been laying down some tracks and I could use a wooden spoon on a wooden floor.
Clayton: [laughs] I'll get her to record something with GarageBand. It was popularized by the Mamas and the Papas. There is this thing every Thursday. There's a little coffee shop here in town. My wife started taking her there, where they would just get together for an hour and a half. This local guitar player would play some acoustic music and whoever wanted to join in and play music with him... Harmonica players and a couple other guitarists would get in and jam and play some Beatles music, play some Nick Lowe, whatever was on, Bob Dylan, Traveling Wilburys, whatever was on their mind that week.
There's a bunch of kids that come to this thing around 10:00 AM. They have a lot of fun. They get little shakers out and they play. I said, "I'm going to go dig my guitar out, blow some dust off of my Martin guitar. I'm just going to go and play." I've been having a lot of fun with it.

Dave: Awesome. When I was living in Amsterdam, every Sunday we would go to this total dive bar. It was a group of musicians, who would get together. They didn't even have a stage. It was the corner of the bar, but the bar was always dead. Everybody would collect up in the corner of the bar and just start playing. There was no organization to it. There was no sense of... I don't even think they were real songs. Sometimes you would fall into a song, because somebody would just start singing and then it would all come together. It wasn't anything, but it was very much what people who don't like jam bands think of jam bands sounding like.
Clayton: Right. It's like going to a Phish show.
Lex: Right.
Clayton: You're not sure what's going to happen. Yeah, it's a lot of fun. What I like about it is there is no expectation of me being great.
Lex: That's pretty much what I've coasted on, throughout most of my adult life, by the way.
Clayton: [laughs] Hey, you and me both man.
Dave: I thrive on it. I need the expectation. I need people thinking that I'm going to do something. The jam band thing doesn't work for me. Maybe I'm the wrong kind of musician, but playing guitar or trying to make up lyrics to sing along, improv-style, doesn't work. I do be prepared, rehearsed.
Clayton: Yeah, I prefer it. The thing that excites me about playing guitar is knowing that I'm going to play a song that people recognize. I have this vision of myself around a campfire. The night is wearing on. Everyone's about to eat some hot dogs or some beans by the campfire. They're like, "Man, the conversation has fallen to a lull right now. I wish there was a cool guy, with a guitar, hanging out, that we could all."
Dave: [laughs]
Lex: What this party needs is a guy with a guitar.
Clayton: Right. Here's Clayton with a slight scruffy face and some long hair, a cutoff T-shirt. "Hey guys, I've got it. I've got my guitar here. I'm ready to go."
Dave: It's like an amazing oil painting.
Clayton: [laughs] Like a Charlie Wilson painting, "Laugh Kills Lonesome". Yeah, I've been enjoying that. The songs are pretty terrible. I'll play every other chord, because I'm like, "I can't play that weird B-flat minor."
Dave: That's so fast. I'll just get the ones I can get to.
Clayton: Right. I'm getting those major cool riffs. E, C, A...OK. You're going to go to B-flat minor? Screw you. I'm going to have a glass of wine.
Lex: [laughs] I got really good at playing the piano. I had this keyboard, this Casio keyboard in college that, whenever you mashed any notes together, it would show you, both on the staff and with the actual letters, what you were playing. If I mashed together a bunch of notes, it was like, "Hey, that's A minor."
Clayton: That's interesting.
Lex: If you mashed the right notes together, it would be like, "That's a minor major seventh." I had never even heard of a minor major seventh. But then, by mashing different keys in the right patterns and having the keyboard telling you what it was, I understood what they all were. I figured out you could voice them differently, but it still counted as the same chord. I knew nothing and then I figured it all out. Now, when my kids have the Laurie Berkner fake book, Laurie Berkner, Dave, being a popular children's artist...
Dave: [laughs] Thank you for clarifying that one.
Lex: ...I can play all the songs in it, because I know all the chords. Laurie oftentimes makes it too easy. I realize, "You know what? On her recording, it's really a B seven, so I'm going to play it with a seventh on top."
Clayton: You're going to mix it up a little bit, yeah.
Lex: That keyboard taught me everything I know.
Dave: Real musicians hate me for that reason. I'll just play the root chord. I learned to play guitar by playing Garth Brooks and Nirvana songs.
Clayton: That's awesome. You always remember your first, don't you?
Dave: [laughs] The first song I ever learned was Tom Petty's "Free Falling".
Clayton: Oh, yeah. That's such a good one
Lex: You and 87 percent of guitar players.
Clayton: You needed a capo. You needed a capo for that, right?
Dave: Yeah, I learned to play without the capo, so I've been playing in the wrong key for 18 years now. I only just recently realized that I was supposed to put a capo on the third string.
Clayton: To me, a capo is a revelation. When you slap that capo on there, you're like, "This is incredible. This is how it should sound."
Dave: Yeah.
Clayton: But the capo is never around, when you need it. It's like a bottle opener.
Dave: I have two or three of them now. My apartment is laid out in such a way that I have a guitar in every corner, so that I can always just reach over and grab one, if I feel like playing.
Lex: On the piano, by the way, I don't use any capos. I'm just going to throw that out there. [laughs]
Clayton: I had the hardest time with my sister. We were forced into...I played saxophone as a kid. Growing up in the Wilson School District, I played saxophone, since I was a toddler. My mom...
Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

Lex: Did you say the Wilson School District?
Clayton: Yeah.
Lex: So you went to Wilson High
School and I went to Wyomissing High School.
Clayton: Yeah. Yeah.
Lex: So that makes us bitter enemies, does it not?
Dave: Uh oh.
Clayton: No. I was in Wilson. I was like, "Oh, Wyomissing. They're the nicer, preppier version of us."
Dave: [laughs]
Lex: [laughs] Yes. We thought about the same thing, but we thought about it derisively.
Clayton: Right. [laughs]
Lex: But wait. Hang on a second. You grew up in Eastern Pennsylvania.
Clayton: Yeah.
Lex: Now you live in New Jersey, right?
Clayton: Yeah. I live just outside of the City. We moved out of Manhattan.
Lex: We are living the same life though. That is exactly my journey.
Dave: This is creepy.
Lex: Weird.
Clayton: But you're not...you're in...where are you? You're in New Jersey?
Lex: I'm in central New Jersey. Yeah. I'm in Malalapan, New Jersey. I'm a little further out of the City than you are.
Dave: Is that how you pronounce that? Manalapan?
Lex: Yeah. Yeah. Man-al-a-pin. Manal-a-pin. It's pronounced Manalapin.
Clayton: It's so weird. I've never heard of that city.
Lex: Nobody has. It's outside Freehold.
Lex: OK. I've heard of Freehold. Yeah. Yeah.
Dave: It consists of just Lex and his family.
Lex: It's close to Rutgers-ish.
Dave: It's the city that Larry Page wanted to create today.
Lex: But seriously, I'm just thinking that man, we really have mirrored each other in many ways. Your Fox News studio, where you go to work, is in Manhattan?
Clayton: Yeah. Yeah. We're all part of the "30 Rock" complex.
Lex: Oh, I see.
Clayton: It's right at Rockefeller Center. It's all underground. Do you guys know about the massive underground hidden structure of "30 Rock"?
Lex: I don't think I do. My sister even works there. I don't think I know that.
Dave: I got lost underneath, looking for a bathroom once.
Clayton: Oh, yeah.
Dave: If you don't know where you're going down there, you will wind up in New Jersey, if you're not careful. [laughter]
Clayton: That's how I got here.
Lex: Or you'll wind up in Manalapan.
Dave: I've got to tell you, when I got lost and finally did find the bathroom, it was pretty disgusting.
Clayton: [laughs] You wish you hadn't found it.
Dave: You might want to send somebody down there.
Clayton: It's an entire catacomb. You can walk from I think 42nd Street or close to that amount, all the way through the underground catacombs. It's possible. I've done this to go meet a friend. The other day, I met our mutual friend Andy Anotko for coffee across town, but it was pouring down rain. I never had to leave the underground. I just managed to get all the way over there through the underground catacombs that are underneath Rockefeller Center. There are all kinds of shops down there.
Dave: Yeah.
Clayton: You think of the NBC Store and stuff like that and that's up higher. But there's Starbucks under there. There are restaurants under there. There are people wearing bellhop jackets and stuff. It's a whole underground culture in that whole area.
Dave: I remember thinking there was a mall down there.
Clayton: I think there is. On the day that I got my iPad Mini or I got the LTE version, I had to run over to an AT and T. I was like, "Oh, where is the nearest AT and T store?" Sure enough, underground there's an AT and T store, right next to the shoe shine place. But, funnily enough, LTE doesn't work underground. They've got signs up, all over this AT and T store... LTE, LTE. But you can't see it on any of the devices.
Lex: [laughs] It's great. Just trust us.
Clayton: They're like, "Yeah. Take our word for it. When you go upstairs, it's going to be awesome."
Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

Dave: We were talking. Before we kicked things off here, we started down this "Star Trek"
path. I want to follow that through, because there's something there.
Lex: I feel like we can't talk about the "Star Trek" movies, without at least acknowledging that, for whatever reason... I know the reason. The reason is another podcast. Clayton's Wikipedia page mentions specifically that he collects old "Star Trek" novels.
Clayton: [laughs] Damn it.
Dave: "Star Trek" novels?
Lex: Yes.
Clayton: I blame Leo LePorte for doing this, because...
Lex: Yes. That's a Twit reference. The citation on Wikipedia is to Twit.
Clayton: Those bastards. I was on...no, my wife...
Lex: [laughs] I can edit it right now, man. Tell me what did you want to say you collect? He collects old Star Wars novels, right?
Dave: Right. Yeah. He has rare F. Scott Fitzgerald books.
Clayton: Leather-bound.
Dave: Many leather-bound books. They smell like rye.
Dave: Yeah, my wife was on Twit a few months ago. I was not in the house. Dvorak put her up to it. He was like, "Go find where Clayton's books are." She was using my office.
Lex: [laughs]
Clayton: Dvorak was ragging her about what was on the shelf I have a big collection of original, those original runs of Star Trek novels. They're not even novelizations. They came out in the late '70s, early '80s. Then there were even some from the early '70s and late '60s, like the James Blish books that were based on the series. You could basically get the novelization of the '60s series.
Dave: Was it a novelization of the series or were they continuations of the stories? Same universe, same characters, different stories.
Clayton: No. I remember reading these when I was in Junior High School. I found a collection of them in the Junior High School library. There were episodes that I had seen on television, like "Mirror Mirror" and these other things. They were put into a five story book for each of them, so you could read along with them. Obviously there were some things that weren't in the show that were in the book. I believe these were the James Blish books. Then they started that run of the actual novels, "Star Trek" novels.
Lex: Right.
Clayton: There were some great writers, who actually had a big part in the original series, who wrote original screenplays for the original '60s shows. One of the first ones was "The Entropy Effect". I think that was written by Vonda McIntyre, who also wrote one of the '60s episodes or two of them maybe.
Dave: Your memory for this stuff is insane.
Clayton: Yeah, it's crazy. That's all I really remember. They go up though a couple of hundred. There are 150 of them. I have a good chunk of the original ones that I've had since childhood. Then I went on a bit of an eBay trend or an eBay bender last year.
Lex: [laughs]
Clayton: I was stuck in my office. I was firing away on these eBay books, trying to get these Star Treks. I'm emailing the guy like a crazy person. I was like, "Are you sure there are no bends in the corner?" [laughter]
Dave: "Are you sure? Are these mint condition?"
Lex: I need this mint.
Clayton: Right.
Lex: If it's not mint, I'm not in.
Clayton: "You're saying this is mint, but I don't know." I got to know the vernacular. "It's now free of water damage, but was anybody smoking in your house? I need to know that."
Lex: [laughs] Would you say that you identify as a Trekker or as a Trekkie?
Clayton: People would ask me that, growing up. I was like, "Even though I've gone to three Star Trek conventions, I'm not a Trekkie."
Lex: [laughs] I'm not one of those people.
Clayton: I'm not one of those. When I was there, I had an awareness of how bad that guy standing next to me was and how smelly that guy over there was. Even the guy that ran the local comic shop, Go To Comics, down at the Toll House Shops, down in Redding, Pennsylvania, Keith Biscani. I remember his mom would hang out in the comic book shop with him. I remembered, even then, here is the guy that's running the comic book shop and he is on a whole other level from me. He has obviously not showered for four days.
Lex: [laughs] It's so funny that you're saying this. This is the same sort of thought process that I use, if I go to a "They Might Be Giants" concert. Man, I am surrounded by just some of the worst dregs of nerdy humanity. I'm like, "Well, thank God I'm not one of those people."
Dave: Right.
Lex: Listen, if Clayton Morris can believe it at a Star Trek convention, then I'm comfortable believing it at a "They Might Be Giants" concert.
Clayton: [laughs] I've wound up at ComicCon a couple of times, not because I was trying to go to ComicCon, just weird twists of fate for work and things like that. I'd always walk around. I'm into that stuff. T remember getting really excited about...it was right before "The Avengers", when they were really ramping up "The Avengers" stuff, getting to see all the comic book characters that I grew up reading. I'm walking around and I keep thinking, "I'm not like these people, right? I don't smell this. I don't look like these, I don't smell like these people." Then it hits you that moment of it doesn't matter. I think their true test is have you ever stood in a line to get someone's autograph at one of those things?
Dave: No, I don't like standing in line in general. I'm a grownup. I'm going to try ... I'll pay somebody else to stand in line for me. See, then there you go. If you can answer no to that question, then you're not one those people.
Lex: I've never really understood the autograph thing where people are like, "I just need to have this person's signature and then my life will be complete." I mean it's one thing if it's people are anticipating others going on Clayton eBay Benders. But if you're doing it just because you want to own the autograph. I've never gotten that. Like I did invite Weird Al Yankovic to my Bar Mitzvah and when he replied, he replied with a postcard that had his face on it. He had written a message to, "Lex, best wishes in your Bar Mitzvah. Sorry, I can't be there. Weird Al Yankovic."
Like that I kept but I hadn't gone on to say, "Hey, can I have your autograph?" I invited him to my Bar Mitzvah. It's a different thing. But like I've never otherwise created or requested somebody's autograph. I don't get.

Dave: The sentence, "I invited Weird Al Yankovic to my Bar Mitzvah" is the most Lex Friedman thing that's ever been said out loud. Right, like you allowed this invitation to go out. Like he's on the list.
Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

Lex: Weird Al, yeah, send that one. Yeah, he's it: Adam D'Angelo from Hebrew School, take
or leave. Al Yankovic, definitely yes.
Dave: Right, but he can't bring, no plus one.
Lex: The thing is everybody who RSVP no, sent a gift. But Al, nothing.
Dave: That guy's a jerk.
Lex: How does he sleep at night?
Clayton: I love Weird Al . There were a couple of brushes. I did actually go after, because I grew up sort of doing standup comedy. And I love ... I thought that that's what I was going to do for my career when I was young. And so I was obsessed with Jerry Seinfeld when I was like 14, 15, 16 years old. I went and I got tickets at the Mann Music Center, down near Philadelphia. I don't know if it's still there. I think it closed.
You remember the Mann Music Center. It was like this round building.

Lex: I don't.
Clayton: It was like a performance center. Yeah, maybe, King of Prussia area near Philly. So after the show, I saw him like two nights back to back. I had like front row seats. I thought I don't even know if I dragged my girlfriend at the time. I don't know. I didn't even care. Just to meet Jerry. Was my girlfriend so I hung out like outside the back of the thing, like he was coming out. This was a whole group of people waiting out there. I felt like a scummy guy. Like who wants to wait around for an autograph. But I just wanted like a picture or something, shake his hand or something.
I shoved like a notecard in his hand. And with your number on it and I reached over and I said, "Jerry, when are you coming back?" I said, I don't know, it was the stupidest thing to say. Like in that sort of pressure cooker moment, I said, "When are you coming back?" and he said, "I'm here now."

[laughter]

Clayton: It was a very like Zen thing to say. I was like, "Yes, you're right. I should just enjoy your presence right now not wondering when you'll come back."
Interviewer: I too should be here now.
Lex: So, the first time I met Al, I was at the Redding Eagle had this section that was For Teens, By Teens, About Teens: Voices.
Clayton: Right, I know that. [crosstalk]
Lex: Yes, I was a regular, I had a column in Voices. But then one time I had the back page with this interview I arranged with Al Yankovic after a Weird Al concert in Hershey, Pennsylvania. I've arranged to do this interview and I'm backstage ready to go in and meet with him. I've given a lot of thought to how I'm going to introduce myself. They bring me in. I go up to Al and I say, "Hi, I'm Weird Al Yankovic. You must be Lex Friedman." And that was my big, ice breaking hilarious joke.
And I have never stopped hating myself, nor has he.

Clayton: And you're worked on that like the whole drive too. You were thinking about it.
Lex: I mean, I had been planning it for weeks. But, yes, I thought about like the delivery style and how I was going to do it. He was great. Then my very first question too. I said, "You know, if you had, you know 20 minutes to talk to you idol," I don't know if I said idol or hero or what, "What would you ask him?" And he said, "Oh, come on, Lex, that's your job." And I thought I was giving him such a great opening to be hilarious. In that first one, he shot me down and I got really nervous. But then the rest of interview went swimmingly.
Clayton: There's something about celebrity that people get, I don't want to say caught up in, but it's easy to get knocked off your feet a little bit. Yeah, I mean look, I can't, I can't leave the house. Let's be honest. [laughter]
Dave: When we ask your assistant if we could get you on this show, there was a lot of waiting.
Clayton: I'm lucky in that I do get to meet quite a few interesting people. But it never, I think it was funny when I was younger. You just get like knocked off your feet about it. I was obsessed with David Letterman when I was a child. And he actually like called my house and when I wanted an internship with him, and like left a voicemail message.
Lex: You missed the call. That's the worse.
Clayton: Oh, I wasn't home. I'm still pissed. It was actually that I got the audiotape from the cassette machine.
Lex: Right, you can't be disappointed by a voicemail.
Clayton: But I never. There's so many people blow through our studios on a regular basis and they're, I'm like, "Oh there's Arnold Schwarzenegger walking down the hall. Oh, there's Steve Jobs," like in a funky hat. It's incredible and you're kind of like, "Oh, my God." You'll tell like your coworkers, "Holy crap, that was Arnold Schwarzenegger just walked by." There's like those very few people that you're just blown away by and speechless, because you're crazy about them, like Eric Idle or like Monty Python theme. Like that level for me. Or if I had a chance to meet Sting or something like that, it would knock me on my ass.
Lex: You were going Irish there for a second.
Dave: Knock me on the ass.
Lex: So you're not an autograph collector.
Clayton: No. The Jerry Seinfeld one was the only one and then last, or two weeks ago, for National Free Comic Book Day, Jim Lee was in the studio. And I was a huge fan. And so he, on the air, drew a picture from Batman Hush for my son. Like he sketched out a whole big picture of Batman and wrote for my son, Miles, something then wrote Jim Lee.
Dave: That's way beyond just an autograph. That's pretty awesome in its own way.
Clayton: That was cool. I told my buddy and he was like, "You realize that people will stand in line for like two hours at a comic convention and pay $1,000 for that."
Dave: Yeah, that's pretty amazing. I've never done the autograph thing. If I'm going to meet somebody famous or I'm going to talk to somebody famous, I want to make a story out of it. I don't want a piece of paper with their name on it. I want something crazy that I can talk about.
Clayton: Have you ever done anything embarrassing in front of a celebrity, I mean, other than Lex's story to Al?
Dave: Almost exclusively I do embarrassing things in front of people in general. I don't know. I don't get caught off guard by celebrity. I get caught off guard by a disparity in knowledge where we've had Jonathan Coulton on the show. And then after he was on this show, I went and saw him live. We talked after the show. But there was such a, I knew stuff about him and he kind of knew who I was, such an imbalance there, that it was hard to get a conversation rolling. And I get really nervous about that. Yeah, it probably a little more uncomfortable if you are the celebrity in the relationship.
If you know the person was a fan first, like it's weird. With people you like a lot. That's the ones I would get most excited about meeting. But when you're a fan first, it's even if they know a lot about you, your relationship isn't on equal footing because you first like them for what they do and it's flattering and stuff. But I think it also, it makes the concept of a different kind of relationship weirder.

Clayton: I'm never going to be the, "Oh, my God. You're a celebrity guy." I'm more of a, "I love your work. I love to talk to you about your ideas" kind of guy. And it's really hard to sell that when you're sort of awkwardly like, "So, I know stuff about you and I don't know what to say." Like in 1991 I had a "Rocketeer" Poster on my wall. And I had become a fan of the Killing. I don't know if you've seen that show. It's finished two seasons. It's pretty popular AMC show. It has Billy Campbell in it, who played the "Rocketeer."
Dave: Ah, yeah.
Clayton: He was on our show a few months ago promoting his new it was like that Lincoln movie. It was I don't know. He was like going after John Wilkes Booth or something was like the main premise. You know like all those Lincoln movies came out at once.
Dave: I wonder why.
Clayton: And it was weird because I was not a fan. I really didn't care, I mean, I was a fan of him on the Killing. I was a fan of him in the "Rocketeer" from my childhood. And then he is here sitting with me as sort of a contemporary and we just talking in the commercial break before the interview. I just said, "I almost brought" I just jokingly said, "I almost brought my "Rocketeer" poster with me." Like he disarmed to me, laughed about it. But there was like a hint of truth to it. I mean, I still don't have that poster but I was like, I was kind of marking out for this guy.
Like, "Hey," it's like my childhood superhero stuff right here.

Lex: For me it was, whenever, I don't know how old I was when I realize that celebrities really are also simply people.
Dave: They're just like us.
Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

Lex: That's right. But it was really eye opening for me. So now I almost, I can't think of
the last time I felt intimidated meeting somebody famous. When it's people who I respect or have admired for a long time, I'm not nervous about meeting them so much as I am nervous about a) not wanting them to hate me and b) not wanting to find out that I'll accidentally hate them for some reason. Like we had idols of mine on the show. It was like, "Man, what if he's like a total dick to us on the interview?" And it turned out he was the nicest team in unprofessional history.
That's the kind of stuff that makes me nervous. It's not like "Oh, I'm meeting a famous person." It's like, "Oh, what if I make it so he never likes me."

Clayton: That would be terrible.
Dave: It reminds me of skydiving in a weird way. I've been skydiving once and when I went, my fear, the whole way, the plane ride up and then falling out of the plane, all of that, at no point did it cross my mind that I might die. That was not the thing that I was afraid of. What I was afraid of is with all the nervousness, my stomach was really upset and I was pretty sure I was going to crap my pants. [crosstalk]
Lex: Oh this guy died. Not only did he die, he crapped his pants too.
Dave: Oh, no I don't care about that. I don't care if I die crapping my pants.
Lex: You just don't want to live having crapped your pants.
Dave: Right, I don't want to land with pants full of crap. There's a four by four grid right there. I could just die. I could die and crap my pants. I could live and crap my pants or I could just live. And you really only want it either die and crap my pants or live.
Lex: If you're going to die, you might as well crap your pants.
Dave: Well, if I shit my pants, I'm just going to like, I'm not going to pull the chute. [laughter]
Clayton: Now be honest. As an adult, have you ever crapped your pants?
Lex: Um: Not at the White House.
Dave: That was a weird segue, at the White House.
Lex: Al Roker recently told a story about when he crapped his pants at the White House.
Clayton: OK. I don't think as an adult I ever have. I remember in Junior High School when I did before I went to school one day. I changed before I went to school. I once wore, I mean I wasn't an adult but I wore like green corduroy pants that my mom insisted I wear in like eighth grade. And I had no choice ...
Dave: Mom?
Clayton: Yeah and I had to wear them. I mean it was the height of embarrassment for wearing these things. But it was the fall of the year and probably it seemed like a good idea. And actually, maybe now I would put them on cause I don't give a shit. They might be a little too small now but I remember I wet myself. I don't know why. I don't know if the two things went hand in hand or not. But maybe it was my way of getting out of these pants. But then I was just wet the rest of the day cause it's not like you when you're in eighth grade, you bring an extra pair of pants on the off chance you're going to wet yourself...
[laughter]

... like I do with my three year old or my two year old at daycare or like I do now. I'm pretty good at ... I pride myself on being able to keep things in until ...

Lex: To hold it until, that's great.
Dave: Right. Well, I will admit. Sometimes I get a queasy stomach and there's been some close calls but I don't think I've ever broken that seal.
Lex: What's your method in the car? For me, if I'm coming home and the stomach is upset, and I'm like, "I need to get home fast" I have to make the car one of two things. It either has to be incredibly sweltering hot or ice cold. Like a normal neutral temperature is not acceptable. I've got to go to a temperature extreme. I've got to go to a temperature extreme to try to help myself hold it together.
Clayton: Are we talking number one or number two here?
Lex: I'm talking number two.
Clayton: We're on the same page. I can't listen to music if I'm in the car. You get that moment of rush panic of, "Oh my god. I have to find a bathroom soon." I can't hear music. The widows have to be down so I can get fresh air and no music, nothing that I have to think about. And for those few minutes, however long it take until I get home, I temporarily believe in a god and I'm begging for help.
Dave: And you're listening to "Fresh Air" on NPR. That's the only way to get through. Like, "I need to hear Terri Gross right now." I know what you mean. This affects my friend too.
Lex: "My friend." This is a story about "my friend."
Clayton: No! My best friend growing up, he would do the same thing. He would think that my bowels were like his and so he'd think that the same sort of weather afflictions would affect him. If he had to do this, run number two and literally get to a bathroom right now because he's going to lose his you know, he would get chills and if he put on the air conditioning, it would make even worse and it would probably shoot out right then. [laughter]
Because we ate so many cheesesteaks in Pennsylvania, We'd be out and about and be like, "Oh god. Oh god." He'd like crank up the A/C just to rib me. He'd be like, "You having trouble now?" He'd be like poking me in the side. I'm like, "That's not bothering me. That cold air is actually feeling good right now."
Lex: I feel like I have a great story to bridge the gap between crap and late night talk show hosts when we were thinking about David Letterman from before, but I'm not going to tell it until after we take a break for our sponsors.
Lex: [makes trumpet noise] Sponsor break! [sings] We've got two sponsors today. Is that right?
Dave: Two?
Lex: Two, yes! Can you believe it?
Dave: I'll believe anything if you say it.
Lex: First sponsor. Sponsor number one is our very good friends at Panic.
Dave: Haven't multiple people from Panic been on this show?
Lex: Yes. It's getting a little cozy. We love us? We love them. They love us. We also love us. So what is Panic sponsoring us for? That is, what are they trying to promote?
Dave: They want us to tell people about Status Board, as if people haven't already heard about it.
Lex: Chumps wasted their money on this spot.
Dave: [laughs] Everybody knows Status Board, right? Everybody has that. I'm looking at my Status Board right now. I love this thing.
Lex: What is it? I'm pretending I'm a man who lives under a rock.
Dave: It's an iPad app and on this iPad app it's got what's called a board. On this board is little widgety bits of information about things that are going on for you or your company. I'm looking at mine right now and it's got this alternating ticker thing telling me how many friends have birthdays coming up. I can see a quick bird's eye view of emails and tweets that are coming. I can see calendar stuff. I can see the time, the local weather and the forecast for the next few days.
Lex: Wait a second. Arranging all that stuff on your Status Board, that must require like a computer science degree, right?
Dave: No it's on a grid. You just drag stuff around and you can make it bigger. You can make it smaller.
Lex: What if I'm a hardcore pro user? There must be nothing for me in Status Board then, right?
Dave: [laughs] There's all sorts of stuff you can do with data.
Lex: No! What can I do with data?
Dave: For the harder-core users, it's got pro modules; graph, table and do it yourself. You can easily integrate with your special data sources.
Lex: That's awesome.
Dave: Most importantly though it's got one of the best setup assistants you'll ever see.
Lex: God that is so true. They've got that pseudo Ikea manual with a Cabel Sasser orchestrated soundtrack behind it.
Dave: The whole thing is as you would expect from Panic. It's beautiful from beginning to end. Every pixel is exactly where it needs to be.
Lex: I use other Panic software every day. If I had a giant TV in my office, I would probably use Status Board everyday too. I love Panic.
Dave: I use Status Board. I've got two iPads. I've got my iPad Mini which is the one that I actually use and I've got my regular iPad which has Status Board on it and tells me things. Let's face it. I could find this stuff out if I went to Dashboard or opened up my phone or something, but to just have it there on all the time on my iPad is pretty handy.
Lex: But the app has got to cost what, $250,000?
Dave: No. It only costs $10,000. Wait! It only costs $10.
Lex: I'm being told it's just $10. This just in. [laughs]. Many of our listeners listen on iOS devices. Wherever they are whether they're at an iOS device, a Mac, or a PC or an Amiga, if they want to check out Status Board right now, where do they go?
Dave: I don't think it works on an Amiga. They would go to panic.com/unprofessional.
Lex: Panic.com/unprofessional. I'm going there right now. Speaking of former guests of the program who are sponsoring it, you'll never guess who is our other sponsor today.
Dave: Jonathan Coulton?
Lex: Very close. It's Rogue Amoeba. We've had two Rogue Amoebans on the show. Rogue Amoeba is sponsoring to tell our listeners about Fission. This gets really crazy because we've had two people from Panic, two people from Rogue Amoeba and one of the people from Panic is married to one of the people from Rogue Amoeba.
Dave: You're right. That is pretty crazy. It's a hall of mirrors today, Lex.
Lex: It's like Mrgan central up in this bitch. But anyway, let me tell you about Fission. You can crop, trim and split audio. You can paste in and join files together. It's an audio editor. You can rapidly split one long file into many littler files. It's for fast lossless audio editing and it's lossless even if you're editing MP3s or AAC files. New in version 2 of Fission by the way, batch conversion between formats and it's got a lot of formats. It can handle MP3, AAC, Apple Lossless, FLAC, AIFF and WAV formats. By the way, the worst thing about the AIFF format is that there's really no shorter way to say it other than AIFF. You can't call it an "aiffa."
Dave: [drawn out] AIFF?
Lex: When you talk about Panic, people know right away you're talking about quality software. When you talk about Rogue Amoeba, it's the same thing. Nobody knows audio Mac mix better than these folks and Fission is a killer app. I'm going to give you the URL. It's a free download. It's free to check it out, so you can actually explore Fission and start messing around with it without paying even a dime. The URL I'm going to give you is unprofesh.com/fission. Go to unprofesh.com/fission and then you'll say, "Hey. I've gone fission." No you won't because you're not me.
Dave: [groans] Dude!
Lex: I'm just saying. I use Fission. It's good. You can look at it and instantly you'll know.
Dave: You really have used it?
Lex: Oh yeah.
Dave: I actually really dig this thing. I do all of the content editing on this show and I do a lot of my audio splitting in either in Logic or Garage Band, but sometimes we'll get a file from a guest or from one-another. Or we'll get something like a live show that just needs to be trimmed up and opening that stuff up in Garage Band or Logic can be a real pain. Just being able to cut things quickly in Fission is a pretty big deal for me.
Lex: It works pretty much exactly the way you want an audio editor to work and it's brain-dead simple. It reminds a little of the software I used to use in the early '90s on the Mac that exist anymore. It was called Sound Edit Pro or something like that, but it's just where you highlight waveforms and you muck about with them. You do what you want to do and Fission does all those things and it does it brilliantly. You should go check them out, unprofesh.com/fission. The other one is panic.com/unprofessional. Check out those two great sponsors who we would make babies with if it was possible to make babies with a sponsor.
Dave: That's not creepy at all. We say we love our sponsors and we really do. We especially love this week's sponsors.
Lex: These are pretty good players.
Dave: It's hard to beat that.
Lex: Speaking of beating things... Wait, what?
Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

Dave: And we're back!
Clayton: This is a true story that in my senior year of college, I de
cided my then fiancé--now wife--and I were going to move to LA after college and I wanted to have a job writing for a late night talk show. I figured the guy who I could get to hire me, the guy who most needed my help was Jay Leno.
Dave: [laughs] The guy who most needed your help.
Clayton: I feel embarrassed that that's the job I wanted, but my senior year I started writing him a postcard each day that had my contact information printed on one side and then suggested jokes that he should have made during the previous night's monologue on the other.
Dave: He probably deserved that.
Clayton: It wasn't like he did a bad job. It's like, "Here's some other jokes I thought of for the day," and I would do it every day, five days a week without fail. About four months into the experiment--that's a lot of postcards and a lot of Jay Leno style monologue jokes--I get a call. Not from Jay. He did not take the classy Letterman route of calling Clayton Morris. I got a call from somebody in his office explaining that there was a legal issue with my sending them jokes because they couldn't accept any unsolicited jokes. I was like, "I'm trying to get you to use these jokes. I just want you to hire me."
And then she said, "It's also that there's no turnover. Everybody loves Jay and nobody ever leaves him, so there's no chance of an opening for you to fill." It was crushing and that is when I realized I should start hating Jay Leno.

Dave: That's actually kind of sad. There's no turnover, so nobody who writes for Jay Leno ever goes on to do anything else?
Lex: They cap it there.
Dave: Writing for Leno is a dead end job. You should be glad you didn't get it.
Lex: Thank goodness.
Clayton: And she also said, "By the way, we're also insulting that you think the current crop of employee's jokes are pretty bad."
Lex: If I were Jay and I was getting these postcards, I'm going to be thinking, "Who is this douchebag who's watching every night, but thinks he can do better?"
Clayton: Come on. He should have hired me.
Dave: I openly mock Leno on my show. Anytime we ever bump in and out of a break with like some of his jokes, I just can't. I've never found the guy funny.
Lex: The thing is he was funny when he was doing standup and he would spend like a year crafting jokes, but when he everyday has to go out there... And once in a while he gets off a good one of course. He is a comedian after all.
Clayton: And he has too many high paid writers that never quit. Have you read any of Bill Carter's books?
Dave: Yes.
Clayton: His most recent one of course was the recent craziness with Conan. Leno is like the demon in the story.
Lex: To me, it's clear he's not a good guy. But when you talk about how he used to be funny. Maybe this is a weird comparison to make with a Fox News Anchor. It's the same as the George W. Bush syndrome where when you looked video clips of him before he was President, he was much more eloquent or much better at speaking contemporaneously than he was seemingly after he was elected President.
I'm guessing because of the fear of constantly saying the wrong thing and getting hounded for it. But like where Jay was really funny and then gets the best possible show for a funny person and squanders it and where George was really good at talking and then gave up on that ability once he was in the White House.

Clayton: You bring up a great point because now that he's out and you see some of these interviews, he doesn't do a lot of them but he's recently been doing them...
Dave: The paintings. [laughs]
Clayton: Yes the painting stuff and good for him. He's finding something he's happy about and he's not sticking his nose in politics.
Dave: Was he ever? [laughter]
Lex: Dana Perino did this interview with him a few weeks ago for that library opening and he just doesn't seem to suffer from any of the malapropisms that he once did.
Dave: I think it's interesting to look at where he was before, where he is now and then during his presidency. Part of that I have to imagine is a bit of him putting on an act because so much of why people voted for him was he was the guy you could have a beer with.
Lex: Putting on an act at the beginning or during his presidency?
Dave: During his presidency. Maybe he was trying to play up a folksy image because it's hard to really hate a guy if he's kind of the lovable dullard. I don't think that's quite the way he would phrase that, but that same general idea.
Lex: I think it's the same thing that Jimmy Carter tried to do too. He's from Georgia. He's the lovable peanut farmer. "Wow! Look at me. I just wound up in DC. Oops! I just fell off a hay truck. I didn't even realize I was here." He tried to do the same thing, but you can't. You're institutionalized. When you get to DC, you cannot possibly still be an outsider. But if you put on that act, I guess it works.
Dave: We should get Bush on our show.
Clayton: Give him a call. He's just painting.
Lex: Now we don't talk about work, but I break the rules when it suits me. I'm trying to find the least obnoxious way to phrase this.
Dave: Are you trying to ask if there's a party line he has to tow?
Lex: That's not exactly my question. It's basically is there a test that you have to pass to apply to be the anchor? Must you fill out a questionnaire of like your thought on abortion and gay people, or do they just know from other things you've done, or do they not ask?
Clayton: They've never asked. The only thing I've ever been asked is to be myself on the air. That's the only direction I've gotten, to be myself on the air which allows me to call bullshit on every side. I call out idiot Republicans. I call out idiot Democrats. I call out idiot Independents.
Lex: And there's no shortage of any of them.
Clayton: That's the beauty of it.
Lex: #Politics.
Clayton: Congress has a 14 percent approval rating and their all idiots.
Dave: Well, 14 percent are OK.
Clayton: I want to know who the 14 percent are. But no, I've never had to. My background is I grew up in Philly and then my family moved out to Reading in a pretty blue collar area.
Lex: I can't believe you lived in Reading. That's just unbelievable.
Dave: Small world.
Clayton: A lot of my sort of liberal tendencies growing up and then I think I've morphed over the years into a bit of more middle of the road kind of guy. There's no party line that I tow because I think all the party lines to tow are crap.
Dave: I was about to say that I think the reason we don't often or even talk about politics on this show is because we just assume that the people who listen or the people who would be our guests kind of fall into the same categories as we do, but I'm not sure that's true.
Clayton: I tend to believe in the beauty of the Earth and caring for those around me, but that doesn't necessarily make you one way or the other. I've certainly met Libertarians in my path who feel that same way, but they also feel that government should just stay out of their life and I have an affinity for that. I get to talk to a lot of really smart people, people who are much smarter than me, law professors and all sorts of people who have been around the world of politics. You just get the sense that Washington is an absolute mess and the amount of regulation...
I've talked to business owners in California who just wanted to open a patio on their restaurant and they couldn't because they tried. They actually got the permits for it. They got the plans approved. Because of the high level of regulation, they spent $100,000 building the patio in San Jose. Then they go to open the patio, they have the inspector come out and the inspector says, "This is all wrong."

They say, "You approved the plans." And the inspector says, "I know, but I made a mistake," so he eats the cost and he can't open the patio and he has to close his business. These are the types of things that just don't happen in other places.

In New Zealand recently, that's the fastest country in the world for ability to open a business. I think you can open a business in New Zealand faster than in any country and you can open a business on the very same day.

Dave: You open a legitimate store, like a business-business?
Clayton: You can be incorporated I think within the same afternoon.
Lex: That's pretty good. Because I live in Denver, I know in the State of Colorado you can file LLC and be a business within minutes. I don't know if that's the same kind of thing.
Clayton: Of course it's state to state, but if you look at just what the mess of California is... I don't know if I've shifted a lot. I come from a family of social workers, so I believed in the Bill Clinton philosophy of, "Lend a helping hand, not a handout." That's sort of informed my thinking, but then I've seen this massive financial mess and it's sort of formed another way of thinking for me.
Lex: The political thing that I love, although I don't believe everything that he believes by a long shoot is Pen Jillette's crazy Libertarianism. Where he specifically says, "I'm quite certain that I am wrong about many of these things. First of all, I could never run for public office because I'm not smart enough and I know I'm wrong and I'm not political enough. I don't like compromising. I just like winning." He can make a very compelling Pen Jillette style argument for various Libertarian philosophies, but then just his constant acknowledgement that, "I could be wrong and then when I talk to people who are like, 'We really need to have a safety net,' they convince me. Then I talk to the Anarchists who are like, 'We need nothing,' and they convince me."
He calls it his "nut point of view," and I just love that. I'd love to say, "Here's what I think and I'm probably wrong." I really like that.

Dave: That's like Ron Paul. Remember Ron Paul's ideas during the debates? He was the one in the room where everybody was like, "He's making the most sense," but then he would say something where you're like, "Really? No healthcare at all. We're just going to rely on the community? Because that means I'm going to rely on Alex across the street if I need to go a tooth pulled and that guy is an asshole." You're like, "Oh, OK." Some of this argument breaks down when you get down to the nitty-gritty.
Sponsor: For the last five years, Mijingo has been helping web designers, web developers, and geeks learn something new. Step-by-step learning, simple and easy.

Lex: Pen Jillette is my political compass, but I've learned that the people who's I can ta
lk to about politics the most aren't the people who necessarily agree with me. It's the people who are willing to recognize when they're wrong about things. I try to be good about this and the best example I can think of is something that came from Pen Jillette. It's my stance on guns. His whole thing was very Libertarian. Give everybody a gun. I bought into that for a long time. Even living in Colorado, home of Columbine, I still believed this was a good idea. It wasn't until the thing at Sandy Hook that I kind of took a harder look at my own views there.
I realized that as much as I might philosophically think that this thing is true, as much as I am pro-gun, I am even more pro not murdering children. I have to resolve the differences between what's actually going to work in the real world and what I think the political ideal would be.

Dave: Without punishing the law-abiding gun owners argument. You get into that hairy territory and you're like, "Maybe I just don't know enough about this. I'm going to go back to reading comic books. I'm going to go watch some 'Star Trek.'"
Lex: To me, the biggest political debate of our time is Kirk or Picard.
Dave: I disagree. I don't think that that one is that controversial. I'm more interested in "Star Trek" versus "Star Wars" and it's especially because of JJ Abrams.
Clayton: [laughs] I don't have enough knowledge base to answer any of those questions having never seen an episode of the TV show, only seeing the JJ Abrams "Star Trek" and missing two of six "Star Wars" movies.
Dave: You're an asshole. [laughter]
Lex: You've never seen the original, any of it? Is it because you have a hatred of it?
Clayton: I don't know. I don't have a hatred of it. I like sci-fi. I especially like time travel focused sci-fi, but there's something about "Star Trek" that has never appealed to me.
Lex: There's a couple of time travel episodes that might get you. There's actually a number of them from the sixties show. That might be a good place for you to start.
Clayton: [laughs] I love that you want to evangelize it to me. I sincerely do.
Lex: There's actually a great episode. I'm trying to think. There's a couple.
Dave: He hasn't even seen all six "Star Wars" movies. I don't think we're going to get him on "Star Trek."
Clayton: [laughs] Our friend Dan Morin always gets upset because one of the "Star Wars" that I'm missing is what he thinks is the best one.
Dave: "Empire?"
Clayton: Chapter five, "Empire Strikes Back."
Lex: Can you believe this shit?
Clayton: No. I mean, "Empire?" I remember standing in line as a kid. My parents ran and got a bucket of Kentucky Fried Chicken when that movie was opening because the line was so long. We had to eat there. We had to wait in line for like four hours. That was the greatest movie ever.
Lex: My parents didn't stand in lines. My parents didn't love going to the movies. And then when we rented movies, we rented stuff that they wanted to see.
Dave: I never saw "Star Wars" until I was 15 so I felt like I was a late bloomer, but you still haven't seen "Empire." That's just insane.
Clayton: Yeah, at this point. Is it one of those things, where you're like, "Well, at this point, I'm just not going to even bother."?
Lex: No. I've been trying to make up for lost time. Dave sent me the Indiana Jones trilogy at the end of 2012, all three, the only three Indiana Jones movies they made. I finished it on your birthday of last year. I finished the trilogy. Clayton's birthday is December 31, by the way.
Clayton: Yeah.
Dave: That's a little creepy.
Lex: I'm still on the Wikipedia page. I was wondering. I wanted to ask you before, is it annoying or tiresome that people were constantly making the jokes, "Hey, we are really celebrating your birthday in style." and you've got to do double duty on your birthday or is it a perk?
Clayton: No. I don't mind. I've never minded it. I always had school off, so it was always a party.
Lex: [laughs] Right. My birthday was usually over Thanksgiving break, so I had the same sort of thing. On the rare occasions that it wasn't or isn't, I would be furious. "School, on my birthday?"
Clayton: The annoying joke that I always heard was, "I bet your parents were happy they got the tax break.", when I was 10. I was like, "That's hilarious." It wasn't until I understood taxes, until I was in my early 30s, when I understood what that joke meant.
Dave: You understand taxes?
Clayton: Barely.
Dave: Can you help me with some stuff?
Clayton: I can show you where to offshore some stuff. [laughter]
Lex: My father-in-law's birthday is January 1, so everybody always has a race to wish him happy birthday, because everybody's already awake and knows where you are today and wants to be the first person to wish him. [overtalk]
Clayton: Yeah. Then they got screwed on their taxes. I now know that deal.
Dave: Yeah, they had to spend the whole year suffering with him.
Clayton: Right.
Dave: No discount.
Clayton: "We tried to squeeze you out yesterday. We could have saved some money this year you son of a..."
Lex: [laughs]
Dave: When parents call their kids a son of a bitch, it's always something special.
Clayton: It really is, especially around the holidays. [music plays]
