http://robbwolf.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Paleo-Solution-190.pdf


Paleo Solution - 190 PaleoSolution-190
[0:00:00]
[Music playing] Robb Wolf: And we’re back episode 190 of the PaleoSolution podcast. Greg, what’s going on man? Greg Everett: Not much. Fun little weekend of weightlifting competition and what have
you and now it’s back to the real world. Robb Wolf: Nice. Nice. Greg Everett: The real world where weightlifting doesn’t accomplish anything for you. Robb Wolf: Other than pain and misery and the cost and all that? Greg Everett: Yes. Robb Wolf: Nice. Greg Everett: Just kidding. It was awesome. The team did really well. Robb Wolf: Cool. Greg Everett: We had a couple of people who needed to qualify for either national championships or Americans and everyone who needed to do that did it and then we had a couple of people who were trying to qualify for the A
session at nationals and they all did that so. Robb Wolf: Right on. Greg Everett: All in all a very successful day. Robb Wolf: Very, very cool. I accomplished significantly less over the weekend but
that’s just the way it goes so. It’s rainy and blustery and cold in Reno like where is my freaking summer. Greg and I were just talking about this so. Who knows maybe Florida? Greg Everett: Yeah, it’s not too pleasant.2
Robb Wolf: Maybe moving to the Florida Keys here soon. I’m over this shit. I’m tired of – I’ll take a once-a-year hurricane and have five days of 200-mile-an- hour winds over cold and rain and overcast so. Greg Everett: [Laughs] I prefer the like one earthquake every 10 to 15 years sort of thing. Robb Wolf: That’s true. That’s true. So what else is going on? What’s new? What’s exciting? What do people need to know? Greg Everett: Let’s see what do they need to know? They need to know that our weightlifting coach certification thing is fully functional up and running. Robb Wolf: Nice. Greg Everett: You can go check out Catalyst.com/cert to get all the info there. Along with that, of course we have our affiliation program now. So if you are a Catalyst Athletics certified weightlifting coach or are soon to become one, you can apply to affiliate and if you meet certain criteria, we would
love to have you on board. Robb Wolf: Wait, you have standards? Greg Everett: We do have standards. Robb Wolf: It’s crazy talk. Greg Everett: I know. I know. Robb Wolf: I don’t have standards. Greg Everett: Restricted entry it’s bizarre but we do actually value the name and
reputation of Catalyst Athletics and would like to feel good about the people we refer other people to. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Speaking of restricted entry when we write our book at some point, that will be very interesting to explore the complete nonrestricted entry
that many have experienced in the fitness scene but it’s an entirely different story. Greg Everett: Yeah. They let me in for a while. Robb Wolf: I’m not even talking about that but…3
Greg Everett: Yes. Robb Wolf: [Laughs] Yes. Okay. Our show sponsors. Why don’t we jump in, why don’t we go from that to what -- Greg Everett: You know, what just start with the Bunny Ranch after that one. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Let’s just go right to the Bunny Ranch since that really is the more
appropriate segue. BunnyRanch.com, check it out. Clearly it’s porn, it’s naked people, don’t check it out at work or at home if that’s going to get you in trouble, but definitely check out the Bunny Ranch. Honored to
have them as a continuing show sponsor. We’ve got Well Foods. Check out WellFoodCo.com. We have grass-fed whey protein. Some folks shot me some questions about what’s the upshot of the grass-fed whey protein. Really, the upshot is the
sustainability piece. So when we grass feed cattle versus grain feed cattle
then we’ve got some real nice ecological, economic kind of considerations there. As far as what is actually going in the bottle not a whole lot of difference because hopefully you’ve removed most of the
fats when you have concentrated your whey protein concentrates, your whey protein isolates so that’s not really the issue. The issue is more the production and sustainability and all that stuff, which Well Foods carries
the very nice grass-fed whey protein, also grass-fed jerky, some cool snack foods. But we also have some kind of on the road meal replacement options that we’re rolling out here pretty soon. So check out WellFoodCo.com. FrontDeskHQ.com, Front Desk HQ is or Front Desk, dagnabit Front Desk HQ is not the name of the company. It is the name of the website. These people have to make this so confusing because there’s no goddamn URLs
left in the world anymore because everybody has bought them up. Front Desk is your mobile solution for running a service based business. We’ve
got everything from dog walking, hair salons. There’s even like some food
delivery stuff. It’s crazy who is using Front Desk for managing their business, front end, backend, running payroll, the whole deal. Check that out. Virtually guarantee that you’re going to get better rates than your current credit card processor and all that jive. Like they’re very, very
competitive, had some huge economies of scale already so check those
folks out. [0:05:27] Last but not the least the Performance Menu. Check out, go to
PerformanceMenu.com. Subscribe to the Performance Menu, the Journal of Nutrition and Athletic Excellence. It is the best publication in the genre4
on Olympic lifting, power lifting, food, anecdotes from the gym. It is phenomenal. You’ve got a 30-day or a $30 per year plan, which is so
cheap. It’s almost ridiculous that Greg Everett is selling it for that little
and then you’ve got a much more reasonably priced in my opinion $100 plan, which gives you access to all the back issues and some other shanzzy stuff. Did I miss anything? Greg Everett: Yeah. I think that’s it. Robb Wolf: Cool, cool awesome. Greg Everett: Okay. Let’s see here. Let’s start off with Kilimanjaro, Altitude and GI function. Sounds like it could be dangerous. Jessica says, “Hey Guys! So you featured me as a testimonial recently” and there’s a link of course. “I am doing quite well. A few minor issues still being ironed out but it has been about a full year that I have been grain, dairy, and legume free. Still climbing mountains like a madwoman and keeping my strength training on a very solid, regular schedule. Feeling like a million bucks. So… in this journey of making up for lost time, I had the stars aligned and
am going to climb Kilimanjaro – I depart late June (roughly two months away). I know… there are so many reasons for my G.I. to NOT go there but this is something I must do for many reasons- if you want me to list
them so you aren’t too hard on me I would be happy to go into the details haha!
I am working against many factors here obviously. Altitude, foreign foods, you name it- and I am sure you will!
I am looking for any advice you think would be helpful to keep me in
good health on the mountain. I will be physically on Kilimanjaro for 7 days to acclimatize. I will get a prescription from my doc for the
emergency situations that could arise, Flagyl and Cipro on hand just in
case. I would really prefer to use something more natural that could be preventative in hopes that I don’t have to dig into those pill bottles.
I will be spending the first couple days of my trip at an orphanage in
Tanzania volunteering my time in their dental clinic for the kiddos. From
there we head to the mountain for the week.5
The charitable organization I am climbing with is aware of my dietary
restrictions and has gluten free and other foods to meet my needs. I will also be shipping over plenty of ‘safe’ snacks and trail foods for myself. Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated. I promise to place a “RW”
flag at the top of Kili for you! Jessica” Robb Wolf: Sweet. Right on. And then we don’t have to climb it so that seems like a win-win for everybody. Greg Everett: Yeah, perfect. Robb Wolf: You know, the unfortunate thing is this podcast isn’t going to air until after Jessica has probably already climbed Kilimanjaro so we apologize
for that. But maybe this will help other people. You know, it sounds like honestly you’ve dotted most of the I’s, crossed most of the T’s. I think
that I had mentioned in my book this product saccharomyces boulardii, which is a beneficial yeast. You might start taking some of that before the
events. I think being really dosed up well on probiotics, being really well rested, you know, all of that sort of stuff is kind of the best that you’re
going to do. Then from there, I think that you did the due diligence of getting some Flagyl and some Cipro.
I mean the reality is for the most part like if you get something in Africa
and you start having the trots or things start coming out of both ends, this isn’t the time to go to like Whole Foods and try to get some warm
wood or something like that. Like you want to straight bomb and destroy everything that is creeping and crawling inside your gut at that point. So
you know just be smart about that stuff. Water contamination is a big deal. You know, something that folks forget about is actually hand sanitization
like your own hands and stuff like that. So like when you need to poo or piddle if you’ve got something like some Purell bottles, which can be damndably hard to travel with because you can’t pack anything sizable in
your carry-on. So you throw it in the underbelly of the plane unless it’s properly packed and the stuff outgasses and ends up all over the place
instead of staying in the bottle. So TSA and all those monkeys make that stuff kind of challenging. But definitely maintaining good just standard
hygiene while you’re climbing. I used to do a fair amount of backpacking and it’s a challenge. You know, anything from Giardia to biting insects
that carry disease are potentialities there. [0:10:03] But, you know, beyond that it sounds like you’ve done most of the leg work on this and you’ve got some gluten-free options. Probably going to6
be some corn and stuff like that but I think that in that neck of the woods
it’s probably going to be pretty mellow so definitely we’ll be very
interested to hear what your experience was. That would be cool as a
follow-up to see what you actually did do and what the results were. Greg Everett: Sweet. Okay. Caveman Bunions. Rich says, “Hi
I am 1 year into my caveman metamorphosis but…..following 40 years of being a zoo human, (and sometime in the infantry) I have 2 rather unsightly bunions. They only hurt mildly some of the time, but they do restrict what boots I can wear without exacerbating the problem.
I am thinking of bunion surgery but I was wondering, before I go down
that road, whether there are any paleo esque interventions/alternatives? And what do you think about bunion surgery? Thank you in anticipation of your answer.” Robb Wolf: Oh man, I have no personal experience with bunions so I can’t really think of any body—I don’t know if you can get in and do like super gnarly ART body work and like break them up. It seems like it would be absolutely horrible so I… Greg, any experience with bunions? Greg Everett: I don’t have any experience with bunions unfortunately. Robb Wolf: Yeah. I mean I guess the cost-benefit on this stuff is whenever you
undergo some sort of surgery, there’s always the potential for problems, you know, what I mean. Just you know, secondary infections and all that sort of stuff. Then you know there’s always the potential that you end up with some scar tissue or some type of issues that kind of unforeseen
problems that could end up being worse than what you have right now. But I would probably just get a couple of different recommendations
from podiatrist and see what these folks are thinking, you know, what’s
like the worst case scenario that could come out of this and then what’s kind of the best case upshot and that’s how I would probably do some
sort of a risk assessment on that. I guess that would apply to anything
from, you know, bunion surgery to like MCL repair or anything like that. You know, try to find the best doc, get some second opinions, do some
risk analysis, and then that’s kind of your best bet.7
You know, clearly we try to focus on low intervention things but some minor surgery here and there can be absolutely the bees knees for the
right situation, but it can also kill or maim if it’s not the right situation. So
I guess that’s all the basic risk assessment stuff I could do since I can’t even – I don’t even think my broken down unhealthy parents had any bunions. My dad had bad feet and I have like zero arches. I haven’t had
arches even when I was a kid so. I don’t know. But that’s what I got man. Greg Everett: Yeah. It seems like it’s relatively minor. If he’s an otherwise healthy adult
then most likely a minor surgery shouldn’t be too big of a deal but if you’re 80 years old and in poor health and your surgery is going to take place in some dirt floored hospital in some third world country, then I would probably look for alternatives in that case but, I’m assuming that’s not the case here Robb Wolf: Oh and Greg that’s developing countries now. Greg Everett: Oh, developing sorry. Robb Wolf: That’s developing countries Yeah because if we say third world country
then the people in those countries listening to this first world podcast are
going to feel set upon by us. Greg Everett: I apologize. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Greg Everett: Where are the second world countries? Robb Wolf: I think that’s -- Greg Everett: I thought -- Robb Wolf: -- everybody who used to be like pretty hoity-toity like Spain, Portugal, Italy, anything that’s been a world power, has indoor plumbing and
electricity. Greg Everett: Former empires. Robb Wolf: --former empire but now not so much. Greg Everett: So yeah.8
Robb Wolf: I think that’s how it all breaks down, yeah, yeah. I don’t know. Greg Everett: Okay. Well I guess I’m not well versed in the ranking of former empires and up and comers and what have you. Robb Wolf: And hip, hip and what not? Greg Everett: Yeah. Okay. Let’s talk about L-tyrosine instead of this. David says. “Hi Robb, Long time listener here, thanks for all the information, you’ve helped
change my life. Recently had an organic acids test done, and the results indicated that I should supplement L-Tyrosine. Thought what the hell and picked up
some 500mg capsules. Wow and wow. Instant energy pick me up from
one capsule in the morning that lasts most of the day. This boost feels “natural” and not like the buzz that borders on nausea on the odd occasion I drink coffee.
I get that L-Tyrosine is used in the synthesis of dopamine and that this might explain my better energy levels, but I also understand that this amino acid is commonly found in food. My question: Why is supplementing a small dose of L-Tyrosine so helpful when I eat lots of protein? Should I also supplement 5-HTP or any other amino acid to “balance” my neurotransmitters (as some people
recommend online)?
I used to have microscopic colitis, but thought I had fully recovered, perhaps this experience suggests otherwise. Any thoughts would be appreciated.”
[0:15:33]
I need to get my classes prescription updated. I cannot read to save my
life. Robb Wolf: I just blow up my screen so that like if Nicki walks in she’s like are you
trying to barbeque a chicken with that. Like I blow everything up
enormous to make it easy on my eyes. But, you know, the amino acids for neurotransmitters like these things can be very, very powerful, very nice
targeted therapeutics but there’s a huge individual kind of consideration with all this stuff.9
It’s kind of cool that you’ve nailed this one down and it seems pretty solid
supplementing with the tyrosine and yeah, it’s definitely a dopamine precursor. The reason why you probably are getting a bump on this is you
need to remember that in food, we have a mix of all the 21 typically amino acids or thereabout depending on the type of food that we are
taking in. All of these things have a tendency for competing both with
crossing the digestive border and then crossing the blood brain border. You know for taking say like tryptophan to convert into serotonin and melatonin and help to sleep then we really like that to be kind of a
singular standalone item so that we don’t have competition going on. I suspect that that’s probably a similar story here. The question about should you take other things to help balance stuff out, it’s a really good one. There’s a guy Dr. Dan Kalish. Eva Ti does some work with him so you could track down Eva’s website and maybe do
some consulting with her or track down Dr. Kalish and do some work with
him. You know, there’s some argument that singular dose, large doses of neurotransmitter amino acids could over time cause some burnout and
actually that maybe part of the problem that we see in general. You
know, like people eat a refined carbohydrate kind of centric diet, which
ends up being a little bit tryptophan and serotonin dominant and then we
get some issue with cortisol because of blood sugar swings and that can
exacerbate this kind of tryptophan serotonin kind of story. But over the
long haul, what ends up happening interestingly is we end up kind of dopamine deficient in this whole process, in this kind of wacky nonlinearity kind of story. So different people make some different arguments about balancing the stuff out.
I’ve got to say the nuts and bolts of how to do it completely outside my wheelhouse. Like I have zero experience with the therapeutic
interventions, running the blood work doing all that stuff, totally on my wheelhouse. You’d have to check some other people out with that. I understand the theory, the concept. I haven’t played with that with
clients or on myself but some people do and some people claim some
really, really you know, significant therapeutic benefits out of this stuff so
I think it’s worth checking out. Everything you described here kind of makes sense.
I really doubt that the colitis would be an issue specifically with the
tyrosine absorption. It could be but, you know, I think most I don’t want
to say this. I know for myself I tend to be a little dopamine deficient relative to where I would like to be. I think that’s why I’ve tended
towards stimulants and loud music, head-butting bars while power lifting10
and generally doing goofy stuff like that. Over time though interestingly
like I’ve figured out this more mellow activity actually kind of builds the dopamine reserve in a more sustainable long-term level versus that binge
and purge dose gone down regulation kind of thing. Like I’ve done in my
youth. So that’s what I got on that. Greg Everett: Yeah but that’s no fun. Robb Wolf: That isn’t any fun and it really does make for good books or TV shows so
yeah. Greg Everett: Yeah, yeah. Do it for us, Robb. Robb Wolf: Yeah, the quiet meditating rock star isn’t nearly as interesting as the one
that does a ton of blow and you know almost dies multiple times and
then passes out in the bathtub and drowns at the age of like 28 or something so that’s a good story.
[0:20:02] Greg Everett: [Laughs] Robb Wolf: People cry over that shit and build monuments and stuff so. Greg Everett: Exactly. You have to think long term. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Greg Everett: Yeah think about your future. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Greg Everett: What legacy are you going to leave? Robb Wolf: Yeah, you’re just going to grow old and die after you’ve used up all your creativity or you know go out in a blaze of glory and people can worship
you from centuries in the future. -- Greg Everett: Yes. All right. This one is Need Gummy Bears and Snickers. Is L-Glutamine ok? HELP! I can’t wait to see how these things tie together. Olivia says: Robb Wolf: I’m predicting a train wreck, I’m predicting a train wreck. But we’ll see. Greg Everett: Yeah. I think yeah, I’m going to withhold judgment for now because it’s not a positive one. Olivia says,11
“Hi guys!
I am a 41-year-old female. 5’5” 130 lbs. would like to lose 5 lbs. And mostly want to stop my cravings for sugar. Mostly Paleo diet…80% for the
last few months. Snacks of corn chips and corn tortillas few times a week. Wine 2 glasses per month max. 100% gluten free as I am gluten intolerant probably celiac (I didn’t have the intestinal biopsy) My question: Is a short-term (3 month) round of L-glutamine okay to help with the intense sugar cravings that I experience? On average, I take 3g a day (three 1000 mg pills). Some days are 2g.
In addition, I am taking chromium and also magnesium. The combination
in these 3 things is really helping me stay away from the Snickers!
I have heard that after years of gut permeability that l-glutamine may help to repair my gut. After a few months, I can wean off of it and may not need it.
I understand that L-glutamine is given to patients who have intestinal problems after celiac diagnosis, as well as cancer patients undergoing
chemo. I’m assuming this is not the worst thing that I could be taking – but I would love to hear your fancy medical explanation as to what this is doing to my body. When I take 3g a day, I am able to eat a very healthy diet with little to NO
cravings for sugar. As a side note, I have craved sugar since I was 10
years old. And from what I can remember I have been gluten intolerant
from that age as well. If I could just eat chocolate and Trix cereal all day I would.. I don’t but I would.
I guess I just hope you’ll tell me that it is healthier to take 3g of L- Glutamine then to eat the equivalent of 1-2 full size candy bars every day of sugar and chocolate. And again I am just doing 3 months and then I will go off and hope I can do without.
Thanks guys!” Robb Wolf: So…
Greg Everett: I guess I’m kind of confused by this one like did someone tell her that glutamine was like horribly unhealthy for her or something?12
Robb Wolf: Yeah, I’m wondering about that. Like I see no problem taking glutamine over -- Greg Everett: I take freaking 10 g a day. Robb Wolf: Yeah, yeah. You know, there are some folks like there are some folks that
talk about glutamine, glutamate like the monosodium glutamate stuff and neurotoxicity I have never really -- Greg Everett: You mean the stuff that makes Chinese food taste delicious? Robb Wolf: Yeah. Like I have never really been able to wrap my head around that. Like I’m not, I guess I’m not in the glutamate hypothesis camp. I know
some people are and god this is probably going to open up some other can of gnashing of teeth and contention over a point of my new show
that is not even… It’s like it’s as important as should I wipe my ass two
times a day or three and it’s kind of like how messy was it and it’s like it was pretty messy, well then wipe it three times. You know, it’s like tinker with it, don’t tinker with it, I don’t know but I definitely don’t know why Olivia is concerned about the glutamine like that seems entirely fine. I’m
going to make a bet that if somebody performed a home invasion with a
chocolate sniffing hound dog that Olivia has this shit in her house. So Olivia I’m going to hold your feet to the fire here a little bit and you
know the best self-defense don’t be there. You know, and this is why in my book I recommend that people clean out their pantry, bag up all their shitty food, take it the Jesus center, accelerate the death of the homeless all that sort of stuff because we’re not wired up for self-control. So we
just plan for that. You plan for assuming you don’t have self-control, which is kind of ironic that I would end up at the Bunny Ranch at all, but I told my wife and etc., etc. Because I usually have some hookers and
cocaine kind of analogies built in to all that stuff. But, you know, this is – yeah I’m not even going to go down – I was going
to -- Greg Everett: Slow…. Robb Wolf: I was going to talk about why I never went out drinking when I worked on
the level 1 crossfit cert teams and stuff like that. But I’ll just – obviously
that is an aside. Greg Everett: Anyone who’s involved knows exactly why.13
Robb Wolf: Yup, yup. That’s why I’m still married. So anyway, so I’m going to say that you’re probably a little bit of a cookie monster and you’re storing that stuff at home and so you need to bag, you know, can that. If this is bad
enough that like you’re jumping in the car and going down the 7/11 and
buying a Snickers then I don’t know maybe we need to put a Lojack on
you or something so that when you go get near cacao proximity this thing
starts shocking you like pit bull shock collar style or something. I don’t know. [0:25:28] But the glutamine should not be a problem. If it’s helping you that’s great but I also have a feeling that you’ve got a stash of this stuff at home. You
know I'm no saint. If we have shitty food at home, I eat it. I just don’t buy
shitty food. Like typically if I’m going to eat something that is kind of off the rails, I’ll go out and I’ll get something like I’ll get a dessert or we’ll go
get some gluten-free pizza or I’ll find some place that makes some really
righteous nachos and I’ll have some nachos and then I’m done. But if there’s stuff at home, I’ll just snack on it and like Nicki will consume the whole thing in like an hour. So I just don’t have the stuff at home, which I think is part of the problem here. I’d be willing to bet some grass-fed
jerky from not Whole Foods, Well Foods so, yeah. Greg Everett: Sweet. Robb Wolf: Great, it’s like awesome. Greg Everett: Yeah. Well no, I agree completely. If it’s not in the house, I won’t eat it and if it is then I will annihilate it. Because why not, it’s there. Robb Wolf: Exactly. Greg Everett: All right. Okay. This next one is called Am I killing my boyfriend? Sounds
scary. Katherine, “Robb,” sorry. Katherine says, “As I know you can understand affection toward feline critters (and my
condolences to you regarding the late Keystone), I thought I might ask about my own. My boyfriend has asthma and cat allergies. Not a great combination when he and I both love cats. I purchased two Siberian
kittens this spring because I did some research and found that they can
be hypoallergenic for some people because they are supposed to lack the
enzyme in their saliva that we react to when their dandruff flakes off. Sadly, despite my best efforts, my boyfriend is reacting to them.14
I’ve heard that owners can become more accustomed to their cats overtime, but whether or not this happens I’m wondering how bad this is
for his health. Am I taking years off my boyfriend’s life due to the chronic
inflammation of his asthma? I feel shitty about this, but love my cats. We’re paleo and I try to implement cod liver oil, bone broth, probiotics, and an anti-inflammatory diet to try and reduce his asthma (although, he
still parties like a hero so my efforts are thwarted to some extent). We haven’t had much success reducing his asthma at this point. Do I need to
drown my cats….just kidding. One more question: I’d love to feed my cats a raw paleo diet (ground meat, bones, liver…, the whole schpeel), but we travel a lot and kibble is
so stupidly convenient. Did you feed Keystone a raw diet? Is buying grain
free kibble and gluten free canned meat/pate any better (they often put sweet potato and other fruits and veggies in the food, likely to add micronutrient content, but I know cats are obligate carnivores, so I’m not sure how this fares on their digestive tract)? Your work is immeasurable. Thank-you! And Greg’s voice is super sexy, FYI.” Robb Wolf: Indeed it is. Greg Everett: She didn’t actually write that I just put that in. Robb Wolf: [Laughs] She did write it. We have proof. It’s right there. Either that or Squatchy added it in later for some dramatic effect. Greg Everett: Hey, I’ve always said I’ve got a face made for radio. Robb Wolf: [Laughs] Yes. That’s a good line. So is she killing her boyfriend. So one you
know usually we do -- Greg Everett: Is she killing her boyfriend. Robb Wolf: --see some improvement in asthma and allergies from folks who are
eating paleo. If brother man is partying like a rock start then I mean it really doesn’t take much to completely undo that. So I guess to some degree, you know, that just is what it is. It’s an interesting thing the
inflammatory process and immune activity. People who have some mild
allergies tend to have a little bit of a protection against a variety of15
cancers because the immune system is kind of ramped up and stuff like
that. But then people who have allergies also are a little bit more predisposed towards cardiovascular complications. So all of this stuff is kind of a tradeoff like you want the right amount of immune response, not too much, not too little. Getting a cold every once in a while is actually good from like a cancer prevention standpoint. Being chronically
sick and inflamed is bad from both a cancer and an autoimmunity
standpoint. So you know there’s tradeoffs and dose response curves and
all that stuff to kind of consider. So I’m not sure what to say beyond that. There are some decent sensitization techniques so you can go to an
allergist and I think that they can help you get over your cat dander allergies with some I think they do some under the skin shots and stuff
like that. Clearly tightening up the diet and making sure you avoid gluten
and all that stuff. If the partying is Nor Cal Margaritas and raw meat then we shouldn’t have too, too much of a problem. If it’s Sierra Nevada wheat, ale and Submarine sandwiches then we’re kind of right back to
square one. So I guess that’s that. [0:30:31] And then you know Keystone, Nicki had been feeding Keystone a pretty
in my opinion piss poor diet until I came on the scene and then we did a
little bit of raw, we did a little bit of canned and then for a kibble there’s
this stuff called Evo by Innova which seemed pretty solid. All of the
completely lunatic fringe, cat people when I mentioned previously that we’re feeding him Evo told me that Evo had been purchased by Purina
and so now was no longer as good. We never noticed a difference with
Keystone’s health or his affinity towards the food one way or the other so
I don’t know if that’s, you know, a tinfoil hat deal or what, but Evo
seemed legit. I think just kind of mixing it up. He definitely liked canned sardines, which are convenient and we’d bust him out a can or two of those a week and good omega-3s. He definitely
liked all that stuff and ironically this is like I think about one. The day we’re recording this maybe one year and a day to the day that the little
guy got nabbed by a coyote so. Still bombed, still a bummer. Greg Everett: Yeah. I remember that funny little guy. Robb Wolf: He’s a good little bugger. Greg Everett: Okay. Let’s see here. Corrie says, “Hi, guys.16
My husband and I went Paleo about a year and a half ago, and love it. We’ve each lost about 35 pounds! The other day, though, something very
scary happened. My husband suddenly broke out in hives, and within
several minutes, his entire body was covered. He looked like he’d been
attacked by a swarm of bees. About thirty minutes earlier, he’d eaten a bunch of shrimp for dinner. I hung up with my husband, and called my uncle, an intelligent biochemist who’d developed a shrimp allergy a few years back. He said, “Well, for one, he’s lucky to be alive,” and then went on to explain what was going on in my husband’s body. Both my husband and I then began Googling away, and after following a
trail that led me to Loren Cordain’s website, here’s what I concluded
(please let me know if I’m kinda sorta right): My husband, who had eaten shrimp with no reaction as recently as one week earlier, and who’d eaten the same meal about a month earlier, had
“kicked up his heels” a bit in the 36 hours prior to this shrimp meal. He’d
had a night of drinking, followed by a day with two gluten-containing meals. Could this have left his gut punched full of holes, which then
allowed that lectin-y shrimp to seep in and cause the reaction?
I listen to the podcast, and remember you mentioning leaky gut being the
culprit for an allergy to all sorts of normally benign foods. And also, hearing of people whose appendix had burst after going out for a huge pasta dinner…
Along with the shrimp, he consumed raw broccoli with ranch dressing, and the sauce on his shrimp was garlic, butter, Worcester, and Tabasco. Since shrimp is on the list of the 10 most allergenic foods, we concluded
it was the shrimp. He’s going in next week to be tested for a shrimp allergy. What happened? Could he have just as easily had the same reaction if he’d gone to town on some peanuts? Should a general warning be issued
to the Paleo People to proceed with caution when eating these foods if their gut has recently been compromised? Regarding anaphylactic shock, my husband said, “It’s ironic, that in an
effort to save itself when exposed to a threat, the body could take it too
far, and kill itself.” I responded with this theory, “well maybe it’s like the
runner’s high-predator attack-Lights Out thing, where the body says, ‘um,17
yeah, this is going to be really painful, and in the end you’re going to die, so we’re going to ease your suffering…’ Only, with anaphylactic shock, your body just goes ahead and completely relieves you from experiencing a long, slow, painful death.” What do you think of that? Thank you, in advance, for tackling this.” I don’t think death by
suffocation is that pleasant and quick. Robb Wolf: Yeah, yeah. I’m a big, big subscriber to evolutionary theory and whatnot but I don’t know that there’s a – I don’t really understand the mechanism
of a peaceful outing really having any type of selective advantage but who knows. Greg Everett: I think people just need to accept the possibility that your body may make a mistake every once in a while. Robb Wolf: Well so gosh, there’s a lot more moving parts here. I think that you’re probably on point with this stuff. Like I’ve actually been doing some
research on allergies related to exactly this and kind of tracking it back
into some grain consumption and also some different pharmaceuticals
that cause some gut permeability. Unfortunately, alcohol can contribute
to gut permeability so. You know, this is - I don’t know what to say with
this. [0:35:02] This is part of my deal you know, maybe an extension from the cheat meal freak out that I had a couple of podcasts back. Like this is why –you
know, out of anything that we’ve got out there to avoid, just fucking avoid gluten. Like is it that god damned hard to do at this point. Like
there’s just so – like if you really are just Wolverine and you don’t react to
it then fine. But every once in a while we get something like this or we
get the person who’s like yeah, I had this. You know, I was eating pretty
clean and then I had a gluten dose and then I had appendicitis and you
know the reality is your gut heals. You get some sort of an exposure that
is irritating and then you have potentially potent response and it just seems kind of borderline retarded to play with this stuff at this point. But again like people do whatever you want to do. Like I don’t really have
any dog. Particularly if you do this stuff in you’re living trust… You know, here’s the deal. Here’s the deal. If you want to eat some gluten, here’s
the deal. Just put meat into your living trust for like 10% of whatever you own and then I’m cool with it. Just go to town. Like I don’t give a shit
then. Like kick your heels up, go wild, then Greg and I can split the proceeds on that and we’ll figure out some smarter use for your money after you’re dead and we’re cool. So have reckless abandon on your18
cheat meals, just pencil us in for 10% of your assets. We’re not asking for much. That’s about what most churches ask for is 10% so. We’re good. What else? Greg Everett: Gluten tithing? Robb Wolf: Yeah. Greg Everett: Shit. Robb Wolf: I think this is all pretty on point, honestly I mean as far as causing some
gut permeability and then the potential for intact food particles that make their way into the system. You know the deal with allergies is that
they can accrue slowly over time. They can happen, you know, you’re
going to get one freebie exposure which then you get – you know, the body is mounting an immune response and creating antibodies and
priming itself for the next exposure. You’re going to get a big histamine dump and bronchoconstriction, vasoconstriction or bronchoconstriction
and vasodilation, hypovolemic shock and potentially death. So you know,
just because you had one meal as a freebie that there’s a huge spectrum
on this and you know even within all this stuff, we could have somebody who maybe is kind of hypochloridic, some low stomach acid, they’re in a hurry. They otherwise eat paleo but they’re not digesting their food the way that they should because they’re kind of a busy person not chewing up their food, low stomach acid due to stress and that could be a mechanism for this stuff too. So there’s a lot of different ways for this to happen but that glut meal cheat meal just seems to be a good way for causing some problems so. For the love of god, have some corn tortillas and a Nor Cal Margarita. Like
I just don’t – at this point I just don’t get it. But people keep doing it and we asked earlier if people felt like the podcast was still valuable and
people said it was so I guess I’ll continue to be flummoxed that people do
stupid shit like this. [Laughs] But again when you do this stupid shit, you
just make sure to pencil us in for 10% of your assets and we’re good. All it
takes -- Greg Everett: I’ll take 20. All right. Hierarchy of Meat? Beth says, “I’ve listened to and loved every one of your podcasts, and always feel that I learn something new.” See. “Here is a question –19
Robb Wolf: It’s a lie, it’s a lie. Greg Everett: “Here’s a question that my husband came up with, and I thought we
should ask Robb.
If you had to list meats in order of how nutritious and desirable they are
in spite of how bastardized they have become from modern agricultural practices… how would it go?
Some examples would be, pastured chicken, grass-fed beef, wild caught
fish, pastured pork, CAFO beef, poultry-house chicken, standard pork, farmed fish.” I’m going to skip that middle part because she says I can. “I hope this makes sense, and thank you for your podcast!” Robb Wolf: Man, so I guess at the top of the list would be -- Greg Everett: Bacon. Robb Wolf: Bacon clearly and then this is kind of like the Mohs hardness scale where diamond is a 10 but really it should be like a 30. You know, there’s like
this exponential growth curve on the whole thing. Logarithmic scale
really doesn’t scale accurately with bacon. You know, just out there by a mile. But after that I think any type of wild caught seafood, wild game is at the top of the list just because of – you know, if we are assuming that
the wild caught seafood has some sustainability kind of considerations
involved and the wild game should have sustainability considerations because of hunting seasons and all that sort of jive. [0:40:35] But from a nutrition standpoint, from a sustainability standpoint, I think
you put wild caught seafood, wild game right at the top. I don’t know that
I would order one above the other. Both are fantastic. Ideally, you’re mixing and matching with that stuff. And then after that I would put grass-fed beef. The pastured chicken depending on what type of story we’re playing out there like whether or not it’s still getting a ton of grains or it’s legitimately like just pretty much a pastured chicken. Like when I did a talk for crossfit, Carson Valley recently, I got of shwagg
from that because usually I just ask for a bottle of booze and a hunk of meat to do these local talks and these guys went above and beyond. Like
it was pretty incredible and so they actually had a legitimate pastured
chicken from these folks. They don’t feed them any grains, they just dig around out in the horse and pork pastures and do their magic out there. The chicken was absolutely amazing.20
It was interesting, it was a decent sized chicken but it wasn’t huge. But one interesting thing is that I did save the carcass, boiled it down, you
know, did the bone broth because I could just ladle myself with bone broth because that stuff is so amazing and rub it into my pores and
everything. But I did notice that the bones from this legitimately pastured
chicken, they didn’t break down at all the way that even a Whole Foods or a Trader Joe is like organic pastured chicken does. Like the bones on
this wild bird or wilder bird were pretty impressive. You know, from there I think your feed-lot beef, farmed fish end up being
virtually identical. There was just a study that came out that said that
farmed salmon because of the high soybean oil content of the farmed
salmon from feeding clearly the salmon soybean products was actually problematic for insulin sensitivity in children is what they said. I didn’t read the whole, I scanned the abstract because I’ve been busy as hell but
it was kind of interesting. So this is another thing where if you’ve got the money to get some wild caught fish and some grass-fed meat and all that, I think is good both from the sustainability standpoint but also the food
quality standpoint. So I guess that’s how I would largely order this stuff out. Greg Everett: Cool. Okie-dokie. Well this says, high rep hypethrophy, all night boozing obviously he’s saying hypertrophy. Robb Wolf: I believe that’s the intention. Maybe they were still drunk when they wrote this. Greg Everett: Oh, my god, okay. Yeah. Robb Wolf: And I’m pretty sure this is English 2. Greg Everett: I think it’s ESL plus alcohol. Robb Wolf: Yeah, yeah. Greg Everett: Just forgive me in advance. Frederik says, “Hey you guys are the best infotainment on the web, etc. 2 questions - 1. Duet to a congenital arterial malformation (coarctation of the aorta – my aorta is narrower than it should be – and I have two stents in place21
widening it somewhat). My doctors recommend that I don’t do any
strength training that puts too much pressure on the artery at any one
time – in more detail they don’t want me to do any exercises where a Valsalva is required or where I can’t do at least 15 reps. So my question is: should I give up on any dreams of hypertrophy – or can
a reasonable amount of hypertrophy be achieved with a 15 – 20 program.
If yes – how would you construct such a program (any differences than other programs). I am thinking maybe some sort of HIIT style circle
training? Additional background info – I am somewhat trained – with a PR of 14
chin-ups and (parallel bars) dips – but a fairly small guy (178 cm 68 kg).
I have a visible four pack. 2. When I wake up in the morning (or later) don’t know where I am, have been drinking and dancing all night, and have only one hour of sleep
under my belt in some random girl’s bed – how do I best recover?” With
a time machine. [0:45:03] “Should I try to sleep as much as possible as quickly as possible? – or should I use power naps and other techniques to try to reset circadian
rhythm as quickly as possible? – some goldilocks zone? Also, how do I prevent damage as much as possible? Robb Wolf: Don’t do it in the first place. Greg Everett: Yeah seriously. “Bonus question (it’s your lucky day) – how long should I wait before writing a girl from the night before if I want to see her again? Does it depend on whether we just met and talked – or ended up at leaving
together? Thanks for everything you do – you guys are awesome.” Robb Wolf: That will definitely be the juicy part of this thing. Okay let’s go through
the bullshit so that we can get down to the dating part. I think you could
probably build a decent amount of mass doing kind of the 15 to 20 rep
range. I think that the Valsalva stuff would be way more concerning with
lower body movements a squat or a dead lift where you really have a
significant amount of weight. But I could see chinning, dipping. Those22
things seem like you wouldn’t get nearly as powerful of kind of an aortic distention or a… I don’t think it would be as concerning from that Valsalva maneuver standpoint. If you bounce that off of a good cardiac
rehab person or a couple of them to get a little bit of a statistical average on that, I think that that would work. So like you know, I would be way more concerned about that stuff with
the lower body work have your weights, lower body. But I don’t know
that training is the way that I would go at all. I mean you’re already doing high reps so then it just starts looking like step aerobics so you know, stay within the guidelines your doc gave you. But actually it doesn’t look all that far afield from a standard body building deal other than you will see body builders get down in the 6’s and 8’s reasonably frequently at least some of the time. So Greg, any other thoughts on that chunk of the
story? Greg Everett: Yeah, exactly what I was going to say is that’s going to be pretty standard
body building fare. So I would just do a little poking around, that’s some popular body building kind of programs and go from there. Avoid the
super high blood pressure, high heart rate, which probably means no
circuit training. Robb Wolf: I think the heart rate is okay. It seems like the concern is that vascular
loading from a Valsalva you know, like full body contraction kind of gig. Greg Everett: Yeah. Well yeah, then that should be fairly easy. If you’re not – I mean I would say probably the two big ones are squats and deadlifts like you
kind of alluded to and because 15 rep squats, you could still load pretty heavy to the point where you’d be pressurizing really hard each rep
because that might not be a great idea. I mean you might god forbid I say
this out loud -- Robb Wolf: Just to keep it light -- Greg Everett: --but you might have to keep it light or even do like leg press sort of stuff where it’s just less loading on the trunk. Robb Wolf: Right. Greg Everett: So. Okay. Robb Wolf: What’s the -- Greg Everett: Do you have dating advice for him?23
Robb Wolf: Yeah. Well we had the recovery from being out all night and shaking his groove thing. Dude, you’re young, just suck it up and deal with it. I mean
you know, the standard deal is sleep as much as you can. That’s just the
standard deal. So if that means taking some power naps, definitely getting back on your normal cycle is very good. Like you don’t want to
goof things up such that you find that hard to go to bed. I believe like 15- minute blocks, 15 to 90-minute blocks seem to the most therapeutic with
regards to like reestablishing neurotransmitters. Next time we get Doc Parsley on here, I’ll have him go over all that stuff. I haven’t committed all that to memory but there’s different things. Like if you need a creativity boost, a 15-minute nap is good. If you need a memory enhancement boost then like 45 minutes is good. This is based off of what level of sleep that you’re going to be getting into. So you
know, basically sliding into REM sleep will help with creativity, it doesn’t help a ton with memory encoding and stuff like that. So there are some
strategies on that but I wouldn’t worry too much and then…
[0:50:01] So if I really liked a girl, I usually pinged her fairly quickly. You know, I didn’t let a ton of grass grow under my feet. I think that Greg is a little more sly of a devil and probably let them wonder a little bit more. But if I really dug her right, I didn’t let her wonder too long. What do you think Greg? Greg Everett: I never had a strategy. I never had a game plan. I just was myself. Robb Wolf: Well yeah, yeah. Greg Everett: Because you know what if she doesn’t like you then fuck her anyway. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Greg Everett: Especially if you already did so. Robb Wolf: Okay. Moving on to number nine.
[Laughter] Greg Everett: But in all seriousness, I don’t over think it. Robb Wolf: It’s amazing that you and I actually got married into reasonably decent
females so. Yeah.24
Greg Everett: Yes. Love you. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Greg Everett: Love you honey. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Greg Everett: Just do what you want to do. Don’t over think it. Robb Wolf: That is totally true. That is totally true because I mean here’s the deal. If the girl is neurotic then no matter what you do, she’s going to make you wrong for it. Greg Everett: Yeah. Robb Wolf: So could call quickly and then it’s going to be like well he’s too aggressive or you know like he’s too into me, I want a little bit more of a challenge
and you don’t want to fuck around with that. Like that’s a nightmare.
I’ll actually throw my wife under the bus a little bit. There was about a
six-month period of her rolling in and rolling out like the ocean and then
finally what kind of broke the whole thing, I was like you know what, you
can bounce kid, like I’m over this. Like I totally dig you, you’re super cool, but you can beat it and I actually – because I thought she was great and
she was in this heaving and hawing kind of deal and I was totally over it and actually cut her off pretty good for about I don’t know three weeks. Wouldn’t really reply to phone calls, was cool, cordial but cool at capoeira when I would see her. She made the final pitch and was like hey do you want to get together and do some dinner, blah, blah, blah and then we basically barely spent a day apart since that fateful day. But you know it’s kind of -- Greg Everett: Oh. Robb Wolf: Yeah. [Laughs] But I’ve got to say like I didn’t feel like I was doing anything weird or untoward or anything and she was finding fault with
everything I did. I finally was like fuck this, man I’m -- Greg Everett: She was just scared of the intensity of her feelings for you, Robb. Robb Wolf: Which is indeed what it ended up being but at the same time like you
can’t be both boyfriend and therapist. You just can’t do it.25
Greg Everett: Yeah. Robb Wolf: If you do try to do it, it’s going to be a mess. So like that’s where you
really, really dig the person but depending on the baggage or the
situation, you may just have to cut that whole thing lose. It will be better
for all concerned or at least some other poor shmuck will get to deal with
the chick drinking herself into a blackout and punching holes in the walls
like my old girlfriend used to do so. [Laughs] Greg Everett: Yeah. I figure if you’ve got to go that far out of your way to play this game before you guys are even together, it’s not going to get any better once
you are together. You’re going to be getting I don’t know how to put that diplomatically. But you’re not going to have a good time long term. Robb Wolf: And if you’re at any university anywhere, then it’s more females than males and so you don’t need to work. Greg Everett: Yeah. Robb Wolf: Just don’t be a dick. Greg Everett: That’s just probability. Robb Wolf: You’ll be fine. Yeah. Greg Everett: Exactly. Yeah if you’re not a dick, eventually you will attract good women. Robb Wolf: Somebody. Greg Everett: I mean yeah. If you are a dick, you’ll attract more women overall most
likely but they’ll be awful so. Robb Wolf: You just don’t want them to know each other because then they’ll compare notes and then you’re going to have to completely change majors, shift into a completely different section of the university because
all these gals are going to compare notes on you and like henpeck you to
death. Then the next person that you’re – I was going to say victim or you
know prospective date, they’re going to go warner and you’ll be done. So
then you’ll just have to shift from like microbiology to biochemistry or something like that so. Greg Everett: [Laughs] Something like that. Robb Wolf: Yeah.26
Greg Everett: Okay. I guess we should move on to squats. Robb Wolf: Yeah. Greg Everett: More specifically why Brian squats suck. Brian says, [0:55:02] “Jambo. I was hoping you could possibly offer some ideas for why my
squat numbers have always sucked, be it a power-lifting style squat or Olympic style. I’ve almost given up on them ever being respectable (such
as double body weight), but I feel like my body deserves an explanation
at the very least.
I used to follow a west-side style template with my training. Louis Simmons has on more than one occasion revealed that his lifters never do back squats in training like they would in competition. Instead, they do various forms of box squats, and then always are able to squat more
in competition without the box. In theory, this makes sense to me, since
in a box squat the hamstrings and gluts are really being emphasized, and
pausing on the box removes some of the stored energy you would use in
a conventional power-lifting squat. However, I’ve never come within 70lb of my 425 box squat and can’t figure out why. Fast-forward to the past 8 months since I’ve switched to an Olympic-style
squat to focus on more carry-over to the clean and snatch. I spent several months just working on the technique outlined in both of your lifting books. I then tested out at a humble 140 kg before embarking on a 12- week structured program mimicking the template outlined in the Olympic Weightlifting for Sports book. At the 6-week mark, I tested out again at 140 kg, and then 142.5 kg at the 12-week mark. I obviously don’t blame
the program. It just seems like with good technique (which several coaches have confirmed I have) and consistently following any type of structured program, I’d make more than a 2.5kg jump after 12 weeks, especially with such a low starting point. I’ve heard you talk about body proportions before and how that could be a limiting factor. How do you measure that? I’ve never walked down the street and felt like my femurs were particularly long, but I’m willing to look into it if it provides some
answers. Here are my other numbers: 5’11, 192, 11% body fat, Deadlift: 435lb, Power Clean: 122.5 kg, Power Snatch: 87.5 kg.” Yeah you definitely should have gotten more than 2.5 kg out of that program so it makes me kind of wonder how the rest of the program
worked for you and based on that kind of what else was going on. Because without knowing that stuff, you know, fudge, I don’t know. It27
could have been too little work for you, it could have been too much work for you. There’s a million possibilities. So I don’t think it has anything to do with your body structure because whatever your structure
is that’s more going to limit long term what your max potential squat is more than what your kind of rate of development is if that makes sense. Robb, what do you think about all that? Robb Wolf: Yeah. You know, you start thinking about -- although his other numbers aren’t terrible so I don’t know. You know, one thing like clearly just as an
aside, the west side stuff is solid for the type of gear power lifting that
they do. But there’s actually been I think a little bit of a reality check, a
little bit of a resurgence into you know, if you’re not doing geared lifting
then you know doing something that looks more like an Oly style squat in
the off season and then widening the squat out and dropping the bar down your delts a little bit for a meet to just break parallel for a power
lifting meet. Like folks are discovering that that in fact works and works
rather well. There’s been kind of a resurgence in the raw power lifting
scene in that quad development is actually a good thing both from an
injury prevention standpoint and from an actual you know, numbers on
the bar standpoint. So that’s just a thought. You know, it would be interesting to see some videos, see a little
anthropometry on this guy squatting. But you make a really good point
too that we should have just seen some increase here and so it would be
you know, if you did like a deadlift cycle or something are we seeing way better improvement there or we’re just not seeing any improvement anywhere, which then makes me start thinking about like dose response
curves, hormone status, nutritional status, sleep quality all that sort of stuff. Because unless we’ve got a really advanced lifter like you’ve been lifting a
long, long time like five plus years so a reasonably advanced training age. But you just may not be that fast switch or that have that much genetic potential on that stuff then we should more. We should see something else happen. Greg Everett: Yeah. I’m not satisfied with that progress so you got to take a look and
figure out what’s going on. You know, the other thing too I mean one possibility that comes to mind too is that I think especially with squats, people are kind of weird about testing them. I’ve seen a lot of people post videos of one rep max squats and things like that that I mean visually
I can guarantee you that’s not a max effort you know what I mean. [1:00:03]28
So it may be that you’re a bit squeamish about kind of pushing the squat and there was maybe a little more in the tank that you couldn’t quite tap. You know, it’s really hard to say without knowing more than what you
had in that question. Robb Wolf: But hopefully you’ve found our ubiquitous commentary helpful so. Greg Everett: I’m trying to be as ambiguous and unhelpful as possible. Robb Wolf: Perfect, perfect. Greg Everett: I feel like I was successful. Robb Wolf: Yeah. So dude, anything else? Greg Everett: Boy. Robb Wolf: Anything else that folks need to know that they won’t survive without understanding? Greg Everett: I don’t think so. CatalystAtheltics.com/cert, take a look at that. Robb Wolf: Sweet. Greg Everett: PerformanceMenu.com, take a look at that. Robb Wolf: We have a new eating out guide at RobbWolf.com, which I think I’ve
forgotten to mention a couple of times and Amber basically threatened
to bludgeon me with like a dump truck or something if I forgot. Greg Everett: That’s right. Robb Wolf: So -- Greg Everett: She asked me to remind you to do it too and I completely forgot so sorry Amber. Robb Wolf: Okay. Yeah, each of us under one tire of the dump truck. So the eating out guide, you know what I’ll throw out a link to that in this particular show. I’ll have Squatchy do that. But basically we had a lot of people
asking about, you know, how do I eat out, how do I both remain Paleo
but probably even more important than that navigate the gluten-free
thing. So this eating out guide covers all that.29
We actually have some little printable information placards that you can
take to your restaurateur that will help those folks hopefully create a
gluten-free environment. Or you know like it’s very similar to creating the hygienic kind of flow that you would have with making sure that you
don’t get food borne illnesses from eating shellfish and stuff like that. So
it’s real obvious stuff, but you know it’s only obvious after you’ve seen it often times. But really all kinds of goodies in there. I think the thing is like
four bucks or something so pretty cheap, pretty solid. The feedback has generally been very, very good on that so check it out. Greg Everett: Cool. Robb Wolf: Sweet. All right man, well thank you again. I think the podcast after this we’re going to try to have Nate Miyaki on. We’ll see if my internet holds on that so we’ll give it a shot. Greg Everett: Cool. Robb Wolf: Awesome dude. Will talk to you soon. Greg Everett: All right. See you. Robb Wolf: Okay, later man.
[1:02:32] End of Audio
